{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N16","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n16_may_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N16 May 1885","mylang":"de"}
:No. XVI.]
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAQR
New Members and Associates •• •• .. 3691 Casel Received by the Llter&r1Commlttee 876
MeetingS ot CouncU.. .. .• •• •. .• S69 Mr. EgllDton's Slate.Wrlting .. .. " 899
General JIIeetlng ... •.. . . .. . . .. 871 Notes on Reporte of the lIoclety tor
Announcement ot General Meeting ... •• 374 Psychical Research by Mr. W. Davies•• 400
Oxford Branch of the Society for Psychical Reply to Mr. Davies' Criticisms . . •• 407
Research •• •• •• .. •. .• .. .. 875 Supplementary Library Catalojl'Ue .. " 416
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
VICE·PRESIDENT.
THE RIGHT REV. THE BISHOP OF RIPON, The Palace, Ripon.
MEMBERS.
HUME, A. 0., Simla, India.
PILCHER, R. H., East India United Service Club, ] 4, St. James's
Street, London, S. W.
PYE, WILLIAM A., 24, Daleham Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
TATTERSALL, ROBERT W., 31, New Inn Hall Street, Oxford.
TAYLOR, MISS EDITH, 9, Endsleigh Gardens, London, N.W.
WINCH, WILLIAM RICHARD, 4, Fenchurch Street, London, E.C.
ASSOCIATES.
CHOWNE, MRS., 17, Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
CLAVEQUIN, EDWARD, Munster Lodge, Monkstown, Dublin.
ELLIOTT, CHARLES ALFRED, Lismore, St. Leonards·on·Sea.
HAMEED,ULLAH, M., Christ's College, Cambridge.
ISHAM, LADY, Lamport Hall, Northamptonshire.
WOODHEAD, JOHN C., 171, West Washington Street, Chicago, UL
MEETINGS OF COUNCIJ....
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 24th of April, the Presi-
dent in the Chair, the following Members were present :-Messrs.
Alexander Calder, Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, Professor
Oliver J. Lodge, Messrs, C. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, E. R. Pease,
F. Podmore, Professor H. Sidgwick and Messrs. H. A. Sn:ith and
Hensleigh Wedgwood.
The minutes of the previous Meeting having been read on the
Digitized by Coog
370· Journal qf Society for P8ychical Researclt. [May, 1885.
proposition of Mr. Myers, seconded by Professor Sidgwick, the Bishop
of Ripon was unanimously elected a Vice-President of the Society.
Three new Members and two new Associates, whose names and
addresses appear on another page, were elected.
Mr. Myers reported an anonymous donation of £1 to the funds of
the Society.
It was resolved, on the proposition of Mr. Gurney, seconded by
Professor Sidgwick, that any Member or Associate who desires to ma.ke
use of any part of the contents of the Journal in any public Dlanner.
sha.Il be at liberty to do so, if he previously obtains the sa.nction of the
Editor of the Journal.
It was also resolved that the Assistant Secretary be requested to
draw up a report of the substa.nce of any discussion which Dlay arise on
papers read at the General Meetings of the Society, for insertion in the
.Tournal, and that the report be sent round in proof to those who have
ta.ken part.
Mr. Gurney having brought forward the subject of the titles of
certain books appearing in the cata.logue of the Library, and also the
question of the classification of the Catalogue, it was resolved that the
whole matter be referred to the Library Committee to report, and that
the Library Committee be requested to prepa.re a catalogue of the
more scientific works.
The next Meeting of the Oouncil was fixed for Friday, the 8th of
May, at 4.45 p.m.
A Meeting of the Council was also held on the 8th of May, Professor
Sidgwick in the chair, at which Messrs. Alexander Oalder,
Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, C. O. Massey, F. W. H. Myers,
E. R. Pease and J. H. Sta.ck were present.
After the minutes of the previous Meeting had been read, three
new Members and four new Associates were elected, whose names are
included in the list on another page.
Letters of resignation were received from La Duchessa di Marino,
Mr. Frederick T. Mott, and Mrs. Walsham, Associates of the Society.
Several presents· to the Library were on the ta.ble, which are
sepa.rately acknowledged elsewhere. These included a complete set of
the volumes of" Psychische Studien," from the commencement, from
the Hon. Alexander D. Aksakof.
The usual monthly cash account, for April, was presented.
It was decided that a General Meeting of the Society should be
held on Friday, the 29th inst., at the rooms of the Society of Britiah
Artists, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, S.W., the chair to be taken at
8.30 p.m. The papers to be read will include selected portions of the
paper on " Some Higher Aspects of Mesmerism," deferred from the last
Digitized by Coog
May. 1885.] Journal of Society lor Psychical Researcl,. 371
meeting, and the first part of the final Report on Alleged Theosophical
Phenomena..
It is intended to hold another meeting, at which the second part of
the above-mentioned report will be read, in the third week in June. To
both these meetings Members and Associates will be at liberty to
invite friends.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for the 29th of May,
at 4.30 p.m.
REPORT OF GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
Friday, April 24th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists, in
Suffolk-street, Pall Mall.
The President, who occupied the chair for the first time, made a
brief opening address. Beginning with a warm tribute to the services
rendered by his predecessor, he proceeded to give 0. sketch of the
progress of the Society from its commencement, stating, among other
facts, that the number of members had reached the total of 586; that
more than U,OOQ copies of the Proceedings were in circulation; and that
the Society's Library consisted of more than 800 volumes, of which about
one third are foreign works. He then dwelt on the importance of
accumulating experimental results, especially in the direction of
thought-transference, which-once proved-would serve as a basis for
fresh departures; and also of collecting and sifting contemporaneous
evidence bearing on every branch of psychical inquiry. He further
insisted that, whilE! the reality of the alleged phenomena can only be
proved by the strongest evidence, cases which are of less evidential
strength may still be worth examining for their theoretic bearings.
In conclusion; he totally repudiated the idea that the search into allY
department of natural fact can properly be regarded as 0. hopeless task,
or one forbidden to the human intellect.
Mrs. Sidgwick then:read the continuation of her paper on the evidence
collected by the Society for "Phantasms of the Dead," dealing with
phantasms having any of the following characteristics to distinguish
them from mer~ly subjective hallucinations :-(1) Correct information,
previously un1o!.own to the percipient, conveyed by the phantasm; (2)
Some clearly defined object aimed at in the manifestations; (3) Such
decided resemblance in the apparition to a deceased person unknown to
the percipient that the latter afterwards recognises his portrait; (4)
Being seen by two or more persons independently and at different
times.
Digitized by Google
372 Jourmtl oj Society jor PBychical Research. [May, 1885 -
Including under the first head cases of apparitions after the death,
but before the percipient knows ofit, there were in the collection about.
six cases ha~ing this kind of confirmation. The second head was very
poorly represented, but under the third and fourth-especially the
fourth-llrs. SidgwiIJk mentioned 18 narratives, all of them accounts
of haunted houses.
In discussing the characteristics of these, she stated that haunting
was not ccnfined to old houses; that there was very little evidence for
the appearance of ghosts on special anniversaries; not much connecting
them with cnmes or tragedies; and that in half the cases they are not
even by rumour connected with any dead person in particular. She
further pointed out that they are seen in all kinds of light, and by all
kinds of people.
Proceeding to the theory of haunted houses she professed herself
quite unable to form a satisfactory one, but thought it perhaps worth
mentioning the only four that had occurred to her.
The first of these, namely, that the apparition is something that
occupies and moves through space, and would be in the room whether
the percipient were there to see it or not,-she dismissed as almost
entirely unsupported'by the evidence.
The second-analogous to the telepathic theory of phantasms of the
living-was. that the apparition is a hallucination, caused in some way
by some communication without the intervention of the senses, between
the disembodied spirit and the percipient; its form depending on the
mind of the spirit, or of the percipient, or of both. This, notwith-
standing the difficulty introduced by the local characterof the haunting,
seemed to her a decidedly more plausible hypothesis.
The third theory was that a tendency to a particular hallucination
is in some sense catehing i-that A having had a purely subjective
hallucination, B is liable, being in the same house as A, to see the same
thing.
The fourth theory was that there is something in the building
itself-some subtle physical influence-which produces in the brain that
effect which, in its turn, becomes the cause of a hallucination.
Mrs. Sidgwick concluded by summing up the evidence afforded by
the Society's collection for "Phantasms of the Dead" as follows:-
Firstly.-She said that there were a large number of instances of
appearances of the dead shortly after their death, but that generally
there was nothing by which we could distinguil'lh these from simple
subjective hallucinations. In a few cases, information conveyed seemed
to afford the required test, but these were at present too few to make
it certain that the coincidence was not due to chance.
Secondly.-There were cases of single appearances at a' consider-
Digitized by Google
.~y, 1885.] Journal of Society/or Psychical Research. 373
able interval after death, but at present none which we had adequate
grounds for attributing to the agency of the dead.
Thirdly.-There were num<lrous cases of seemingly similar appari-
tions, seen in particular houses, without, apparently, any possibilityofthe
similarity being the result of suggestion or expectation, but the evidence
connecting such haunting with any definite dead person was small, and
.the evidence for tile operation of any intelligent agency in it, nil; and
until we could discover more about the laws that seem to govern such
haunting, we were hardly justified' in forming any tbeory as to its
cause-except as a provisional hypothesis.
She feared tbat as regarded present conclusions, the result of the
investigation would appear to many unsatisfactory. But she did not
herself think that we ought to expectso quickly to come to a conclusion,
and she said tbat her examination of the evidence had at any rate
convinced her that the inquiry, though likely to be long and difficult,
was worth pursuing with patience and energy.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, referring to the frequent absence of purpose in
the visits of "ghosts," said that it occurred to him tbat taking the whole
number of fairly well-attested accounts of apparitions in the past tllere
was a larger proportion in which a definite purpose was apparent than in
those which had been selected in the paper we had heard. He thought
we must try and find out what the "ghost" wanted, without laying
much stress on the intrinsic importance of the object. He gave the
outline of a remarkable story told by J ung-Stilling, in which one of
three schoolmasters having died, first one and then the other of the
survivors was disturbed by noises, and by the figure of the deceased,
wllo by its actions and gestures a.ppeared to be desirous of conveying
some special request. Endeavouring to interpret these, they finally
discovered that the deceased had left various small bills of private
expenses unpaid. On these being settled, no further manifestation
occurred. Mr. Myers did not wish it to be understood that he believed
this grotesque story represented a literal reality. But, if we did ascend
higher, we might suppose tbat we should be desirous that even small
duties should not be left unfulfilled, and these phenomena might be the
result of a kind of unconscious dream. He thought that tbe causes
might, in some eases, be of so tri1l.ing a character that it would be
impossible to discover them.
Mr. Bidder, Q.C., had been most struck by the lastalternath'e theory
which the writer of the paper had brought forward. It had previously
Occurred to him whether in some of those cases in which a phantom was
$aid to appear in the same place from time to time, there might not
be another hypothesis; whether it might not be possible that the phan-
tom was neither objective nor su1dective, but due to some effect having
been produced on the surrounding objects, a sort of physical reminis-
Digitized by Google
374 Journal of Society lo" P3flchical Re8earth. [May. 1885.
cence, so to speak, which could under certain circumstances be percei\"ed
by persons sufficiently sensitive. His idea was that; there might be
something analogous to the property which some substances possess of
absorbing light, and thus becoming luminous for a long time afterwards.
A gentleman inquired whether there were any haunted houses
within easy access from London at the present time, as it would be very
interesting to have the personal experiences of any of the Society who
might visit them.
Mr. Podmore called the attention of the Members of the Society to
the announcement in the last number of the Journal, and said that every
facility would be afforded to any who were desirous of investigating.
The President, referring to the humorous n.spect of the question,
said that he should be well pleased if the result of the inquiry was that
there would be one laugh the less and one truth the more. He did not
think we must judge of these things as if the spirits of the departed
were necessarily engaged in them. The real interpretation might be very
ditrerent from this. His view was that at present we were more con-
cerned with, facts than· vTith explanations. It was our duty to
endeavour to account for the evidence before us, in the first place, by
things which we knew. At the same time, we could not say there was
any inherent improbability in appearances of some kind of the departed.
i'he inquiry we were engaged in included matters of rare occurrence and
of great interest, and we must not suppose that there was any apriori
improbability, if we should ultimately be driven to accept as the real
explanation of the phenomena that they were actually phantasms of
the dead.
Owing to the lateness of the hour the question was put to the
meeting by Mr. Gurney whether the second paper which it was intended
to bring forward, and which he feared would occupy at least 40 minutes,
should be read, or whether it should be postponed. The wish of the
meeting appearing to be in favour of the latter course, the paper was
postponed, and the meeting RSsumed a conversational character.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF GENERAL MEETING.
,The next General Meeting of the Society will be held on Friday,
May 29th, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Sutrolk-
street, Pall Mall, at 8.30 p.m., when papers will be read by Mr. Gurney
on Mesmerism, and by Mr. Hodgson on Alleged "Theosophical"
Phenomena.
Digitized by Google
lrJay,l885.l' .TouNlal qf Soeietll lor P'1lcMcal Be8eal·cl,. 375
OXFORD BRANOH OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYOHICAL
RESEAROH.
This branch was f<>rmed in January, 1885, under the presidency of
Mr. A. Sidgwick, M.A., of Oorpus Christi Oollege. The branch owes
its formation chiefly to the efforts of Mr. F. Podmore, who paid a. visit
to Oxford in the Michaelmas term. Several meetings of 'the branch
have been held, and committees of investigation have been formed;
but so 'far no reports have been presented. A genei-al meeting was
held last term, at which Mr. F. W. H. Myers delivered a very interesting
lecture. The rules are similar to those of the Cambridge Branch. The
composition of the branch is as follows :-
PRESIDENT:
A. SIDGWICK, M.A. (C.C.C.)
SECRETARY:
EARL R,USBBLL (Balliol).
MEMBERS:
Miss Edith Argles.
Miss F. M. F. Skene.
St. G. Stock.
R. E. Baynes.
A. R. Bonus.
R. Castle.
I
I
H. S. Holt.
O. Beatty.
W. G. Arkwright.
P. L. Gell.
F. C. Schiller.
AFFILIATED MEMBERS.
F. H. Matthews (C.C.C.).
V. W. Maughan (St. John's).
R. C. Fillingham (Merton).
C. R. Fraser (Balliol).
P. U. Henn (Worcester).
H. Y. Oldham (Jesus).
R. F. Sharp (New ColI.).
A. CurtoiB (Worcester).
H. J. Cohen (Jesus).
C. Y. Sturge, B.A. (Trinity).
V. G. Plarr (Worcester).
W. Miller (Hertford).
F. E. Suckling (St. Mary Hall).
C. E. F. Starkey(Pembroke).
C. P. R. Young (Pembroke).
D. Dunstan (The Museum).
A. E. Rubie (B.N.C.).
F. W. Walton (Keble).
E. A. Jepson (Balliol).
A. H. PeppinJWorcester}.
G. Acheson ( niv.).
C. H. Roberts (Balliol).
S. D. DarbiBhire, M.D.
S. Ball, M.A. (St. John's).
W. S. Swayne, B.A. (New ColI.).
S. Alexander, M.A. (Lincoln).
A. H. Bassano (Balliol).
J. F. McArthur (Balliol).
J. F. Wykes (Jesus).
Dr. Collier (M. B. Cam.).
C. W. Peake (Hertford).
H. Cross (Hertford).
B. M. Allen (Balliol).
H. M. Laurie (Balliol).
Digitized by Google
Journal of &Cietufor PBtlcnical Research. [Ma,.l885.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
(Continued.)
[It has been suggested that the use of the letters Ad po (Agent
dying, Percipient normal) and similar symbols at the head of these
narratives is open to' objection, on the ground that it assumes a
particular explanation of Phantasms of the Living which ought not to
be regarded as established. It seems desirable, therefore, to explain
that no such assumption is intended to be implied. By" Percipient" is
merely meant the person who perceives the phantasm, and by " Agent "
the person who is apparently the cause of the phantasm, whether he be
so consciously or not. Thus, for example, the terms in no wa.y
exclude even the supposition that a "veridical" apparition is directly
due to some subtle ma.teria.l body, usua.lIy associated with the ordina.ry
body of the agent, but under specia.l circumstances separating itself
from it, and ca.reering through space by itself. Our readers are of
course aware that the hypothesis put ,forward by the Literary
Committee, under the name" Telepathy," is quite different; it is that
such apparitions are directly due to ha.lIucination, but that this
hallucination is caused by some ·communica.tion acting otherwise than
through the ordina.ry channels of the senses, between the minds of the
person perceiving and of the person about whom information seems
to be conveyed.
As there has been some misa.pprehension as to what is implied in the
word" Telepathy," it may be worth while to quote here the passage in
iIle Proceeding., Vol. I., p. 147, where the word is first introduced by the
Literary Committee: "Clearly then, the analogy of Thought-transference
which seemed to offer such a convenient logical ..tart, cannot be pressed
too fa.r. Our phenomena break through any attempt to group them
under heads of transferred impression, and we venture to intrQd.uce
the words Telre.tlt.e8'ia and Teiepatl,y to cover all cases of impressions
received at a distance without the normal operation of the recognised
sense' organs." Again, in Vol. II., p. 118, the following extension of
meaning was explained in a note: " We began by restricting this
word to cases when the distance through which transference of im-
pressions took place, far exceeded the scope of the recognised senses.
But there is great convenience in extending the term to all cases of
impressions conveyed without any aft'ectionof thepercipient'srecognised
senses, whatever may be his distance from the agent." To limit' the
meaning of the word by making it imply any theory either as to the
mode of conveyance of the impression, or as to the mental conditions
required either in the agent or percipient, would certainly be undesir-
able in the present state of the inquiry. ED.].
Digitized by Google
Mar. 1885.] Journal qf Societg for· P8gchical Re8earch. 377
L.-I060-Ad pa
This narrative is forwarded to us through Miss Richardson, known
to Mr. E. R. Pease.
From Miss Richardson, 47, Bedford Gardens, Kensington, W.
The writer is a very worthy wife of a shopkeeper at home, who
told me the' occurrence some years ago, then with more detail, as it was
fresh in her memory, and her husband can vouch for the facts told him
at the time, and the strange "uncanny" effect of the dream on her
mind for some time after.
From Mrs. Green to Miss Richardson.
Newry, 21st First Hontlt, 1885.
DEAR FRIEND,-In compliance with thy request, I give thee the
particulars of my dream.
I saw two respectably-dressed females driving alone in 11- vehicle like
a minera.l water cart. Their horse stopped at a water to drink; but as
there was no footing, he lost his balance, and in trying to recover it he
plunged right in. With the shock, the women stood up and shouted for
help, and their hats rolle off their heads, and as all were going down I
turned away crying, and saying, " Was there no one at all to help
them 1" upon which I awoke, and my husband asked me what was
the matter. I related the above dream to him, and he asked me if I
knew them. I said I did not, and thought I had never seen either of
them. The impression of the dream and the trouble it brought was over
me all day. I remarked to my son it was the anniversary of his birth-
day and my own also-the 10th of First Month, and this is why I
remember the date.
The following Third Month I got a letter and newspaper from my
brother in Australia, named Allen, letting me know the sad trouble
which had befallen him in the loss, by drowning, of one of his daughters
and her companion. Thou will see by. the desel'iption given of it in the
paper how the event corresponded with my dream. My niece was born
in Australia, and I never saw her.
Please return the paper at thy convenience. Considering that our
night is their day, I must have been in sympathy with the sufferers at
the time of the accident, on the Tenth of First Month, 1878.
It is referred to in two separate places in the newspaper.
From tht' Inglewood Advertiser.
Friday evening, January Iltlt, 1878.
A dreadful accident occurred in the neighbourhood of Wedderburn;
on Wednesday last, resulting in the death of two women, named
Leheyand Allen. It appears that the deceased were driving into
Wedderburn in a spring cart from the direction of Kinypanial, when
Digitized by Google
378 Journal Qf &ciety for Psgckical Research. [llay,1885;.
they attempted to water their horse at a dam on the boundary of Torpi-
chen Station. The da.m was 10 or 12 feet deep in one spot, and int<>
this deep hole they must have inadvertently driven, .for Mr. W.
McKechnie, manager of Torpichen Station, upon going to the dam some
hours afterwards, discovered the spring cart and horse under the water,
and two women's hats Boating on the surface. . • . • The dam
was searched, and the bodies of the two women, clasped in each other's
arms, recovered.
Ext!'8.Ct from Evidence given at the Inquest.
Joseph John Allen, farmer, deposed: I identify one of the bodies as
that of my sister. I saw her about 11 a.m. yesterday. • . • The
horse had broken away and I caught it for her. Mrs. Lehey and my
sister met me when I caught the horse. • They then took the
horse and went to Mr. Clarke's. I did not see them afterwards alive.
William McKechnie deposed . • • About 4 p.m. yesterday, I
was riding by the dam when I observed the legs of a horse and the
chest above the wawr.
From Mr. Green, Newry.
15tl, Second Month, 1885.
DEAR FRIEND, EDITJI RICHARDsoN,-ln reference to the dream that
my wife had of seeing two women thrown out of a spring cart by their
horse stopping to drink out of some deep water, I remember she was
greatly distressed about it, and seemed to feel great sympathy for them.
It occurred on the night of the 9th of January.
Thereo.son I can .remember the date so well is that the lOth was the
anniversary of my wife and our son's birthday. AlI the day advanced
she seemed to get worse, and I advised her to go out for a drive; when
she returned she told me she was no better, and also said she had told
the driver not to go near water, lest some accident should happen, as
she had had such a dreadful dream the night before, at the same time
telling him the nature of it. As my wife's niece did not live with her
father, he was not told of it until the next morning, which would be our
evening of the 10th, and which we think accounted for the increased
trouble she felt in sympathy with him.
THOS. GREEN.
Mrs. Green has had no other experience of the sort.
Inglewood is in Queensland, on the border of New South Wales.
Note.-This appears to us to be, for a dream, a verystrong C8.IIe,on account
(If the amount of detail. The fact that the figures seen were merely recognised
aa "two females" diminishes, of course, the force of the coincidence;
though, perhaps, one would hardly expect recognition of persona unknown
to the percipient. What we more regret is that the account of the dream
'W8B not written down (as wellaa told) before the· confirmatory news waa
Digitized by Google
May,l885.] Journal oj Society .fo;' PS.lfckical Besem·ch.' 3';"9
received. We should then have had absolutely independent accounts of
dream and accident, and probably more details of the dream than it is now
poBBible to obtain, and the narrative would then have been evidentially one
of the best in our collection.
L.-1582-Ad pn -(Borderland).
Extract from a note-book of the Rev. T. Williams, Rectory,
Aston-Clinton, Tring. (The note was made by Mr. Williams on the
receipi; of a letter from his sister narrating the occurrence.)
Mrs. Stewart, sister-in-law of Jane, my sister's servant, came up to
ask if any news from home. She said, with her husband in bed-
moonlight--chest of drawers between window-saw her mother standing
-felt perfectly awake-she hid her face-a third time looked up-heard
[1 saw] nothing, but heard men calling up-knew exact time. Shecame
up to my sister's and related this the same day-said dreading to hear
knock at door all day-fearing to hear of something having happened ,to
her mother. Her friends, who lived at Church Stretton, came a month
after to christening of her baby; in mourning-said mother's sister,
who exact image of her mother, had died at the very time of her vision
-but friends did not tell Mrs. Stewart, because of her condition. This
written from my sister's account, who saw Mrs. Stewart (Margaret) on
the day of the vision, and heard account of what seen from lierself.
The following is from the husband of. the percipient, who is herself
dead :-
AP1-il, 1885. '
Mrs. Stewart, the wife of a carpenter, living in Abergavenny,
Monmouthshire, and who [Mrs. S.] is since dead, was in the year 1874,
in bed, and early one morning, being sure she was awake, (for she had
just heard the railway men being called to their work by the call boy,)
she looked up to see the time, and in one corner of her room she saw
distinctly what she thought was her mother, intently looking at her.
She was startled, and hid her face. On looking a,,"8.in the vision was
still there, but on looking up a third time it had disappeared. Mrs
Stewart come up that day to see a sister-in-law who was in service llear
the town, to ask if she had had allY tidings from her home (the im-
pression the vision hacl made was so great), but nothing had been heard.
Time passed on, and all seemed forgotten, when some of her friends
came up to Abergavenny, to the christening of a little baby, born ill
the meantime. They were in mourning; and inquIries were made as to
the friend mourned for, when it was told that on the night Mr&.
Stewart thought she saw her mother, a sister of the mother's, to whom
she bore a great likeness, had died about the hour named, at IIOme
Digitized by Google
380 Journal of 8ocief,l Jo,. P'1fCAical Baearcn. [Yay, 1885.
distance off, but they did not tell Mrs. Stewart of the death until some
weeks after it happened, aa Mrs. Stewart waa in delicate health a.nd
much attached to her aunt.
Jon STEWART.
L-1583-Ad po
From Miss Burrows, The Poplars, Normans Place, Altrincham.
December, 1884.
SIR,-I can furnish you with an instance of my name being called
by my mother, who was 18 miles off, and dying at the time. I was not
aware she waa ill, nor was I thinking about her at the time. No one
here knew my name, and it waa her voice calling, as I was always
addressed at home" Lizzy." I can give you more exact information if
you require it.-Yours truly,
E. BURROWS.
The Poplars, Normans Place, Altrincham.
March 18tl~, 1885.
In regard to voice which I heard call my name on the 19th
February, 1882, I recognised it instantly as being that of my mother.
It was 'Veril loud, sharp, and impetuous as if frightened at something.
Our house is detached, very quiet, and the only innl8.tes of the house
beside myself were two gentlemen, aged respe::tively 58 and 37, and a
widowed daughter-in-law [of the elder gentleman] who had lived with
them five years; and not one of them knew my Christian name. I
was thunderstruck, and ran out of my room to see if I coulc;l account
for the voice. I told tl~ lady tl~e same morning.
I never saw anything I thought supernatural, and only once before
had anything like a. similar hallucination. My father and mother were
not superstitious people, and a healthier family could not possibly be
than ours.
E. BURROWS.
[The other occasion was 12 years previously, when Miss
Burrows and her mother heard some sounds which seemed to them
unaccountable.]
From Mrs. Griffiths, 31, Rosaville Road, Fulham Road.
March 25el£.
DEAR SIR,-I am very glad to be able to corrobra.te the statement
made by Miss Burrows, about hearing herself called by name at the
time of her mother's death. I cannot remember the exact.date, but it
was a Sunday morning in February, 1882, and when I came down to
breakfast she told me about it and said that a voice called " Lizzy"
Digitized by Google
May,l885.] Journal of Society for P8!/ckical Re8earch. 381
distinctly, and it sounded just like lier mother's. The next morning she .
had the news of her mother's death; and she had not one idea that she
was ill before, 80 that it could not have been fancy.
H. GRIFFITHS.
[It will be seen that Miss Burrows gives February 19th as the date~
a.nd Mrs. Griffiths mentions independently that the day was a Sunday.
The 19th of February, 1882, fell on a Sunday.]
L.-1584-Ae pn
From Joseph Smith, M.D., Warrington.
NovemlJer 24tl" 1884.
When I lived at Penketh, about 40 years ago, I was sitting one
evening reading, and a voice came to me, saying, "Send a loaf to James
Gandy's." I continued reading, and the voice came to me again, .. Send
a.loof to James Gandy's." Still I continued reading, when a third time
the voice came. to me with greater emphasis, "Send a loaf to James
Gandy's;" and this time it was accompanied by an almost irresistible
impulse to get up. I obeyed this impulse and went into the village.
bought a large loaf, and seeing a lad at the shop door, I asked him if he
knew James Gandy's. He said he did; so I gave him a trifle and
asked him to take the loaf there, and to say a gentleman had sent it.
Mrs. Gandy was a member of my class, and I went down next morning
to see'what had come of it, when she told me that a strange thing had
happened to her last night. She said she wanted to put the children
to bed, and they began to cry for food, and she had not My to give
them; for her husband had been for four or five days out of work.
She then went to prayer, to ask God to send them something; soon
after which a lad came to the door with a loaf, which he said a gentle-
man gave him to bring to her. I calculated upon inquiry made of her
that her prayer and the voice which I heard exactly coincided in point
of time.
JOSEPH SMITH, M.D.
(For many years leading medical practitioner in Warrington, and a class
leader in the Wesleyan Methodist Church.)
Joseph Smith, M.D" dictated and signed the above in my presence.
JAMES ALEX. MACDONALD.
L.-1585-Ad pn ~(Borderland)
From Miss Kate Jenour, 23, Belsize-square, South Hampstead, N.W.
November, 1884.
On the 4th May, 1883, when on board the H. M. S. Spartan, on my
Digitized by Google
382 Journal oj &ciet!1 /01' P8ychical Re8em·ch. [May. 1885.
way to Cape Town, I was awoke by hearing someone in my cabin, which
I alone occupied, when to my surprise I saw the figure of a friend of
mine standing by my berth. It then disappeared, and by the first
mail after my arrival at Cape Town, I received the news of my friend's
death, which took place at 10.30 p.m. on that day. I told two or
three passengers on board, who made a note of it.
[Miss J enour is well known to an intimate friend of mine, who has
heard the account from her viva voce j but repeated letters of mine to
her have remained unanswered. Unfortunately our common friend
is in India.-E.G.]
L.-1586-Ae PD
Mrs. Robinson (care of George May, Esq., The Warren, Caversham,
Reading) reports that about the year 1871, one evening, at 7 or 8
o'clock, she had an auditory hallucination-a voice "calling the name
of an old nurse three times consecutively, and twice heard." The voice
was that of her son, who "was abroad, as was supposed. He returned
unexpectedly next day, very ill, and died soon after."
J. R. ROBINSON.
Asked if she had ever had any other hallucination of the senses, Mrs.
Robinson replied that she had not.
The following fuller account is from Miss Leete, known to our
friend, Miss Porter, as a thoroughly trustworthy reporter:- .
.August 19t1t, 1884.
I have received the following account direct from Mrs. Robinson,
an elderly lady, now living in Reading. One evening in the year 1871
she was sitting alone at needlework when she heard the voice of an
absent son, Stamford Robinson (supposed to be abroad, but he had not
been heard of for some considerable time), in the passage outside, calling
loudly three times, " Nar, Nar, Nar.n This was the pet name of an
old family nurse, who had stood to all the children almost in a mother's
place, owing to Mrs. Robinson's constant attendance on an invalid
husband. She rose and opened the door, fully expecting to find her
son in the hall, but seeing no one, resumed her work, and concluded the
sound was due to her own imagination. No sooner had she done so
than the same cry was repeated three times as before. This time Mrs.
Robinson/eit that it was due to so~e exceptional cause, and a strong
conviction that her son was in some trouble, which conviction she
expressed to more than one person in the house. The next day her son
arrived home, suddenly and moat unexpectedly, in an almost dying
condition, and after a three wtleks' illness died at a very early age-
about 25, if I remember rightly. JBSSIE LEETE.
Digitized by Google
~Y. 1.885,] Journal of Society for Psychical Reseaf·ck. 383
L.-1587-Ad Pia
This case was first described to us by a clergyman, as follows :-
.Marcl~ 5th, 1885.
Some 18 or 19 years ago, I remember calling on a working
maltster, whose employer was living at Lill-coln. His employer was
ill at the time, and I asked the man if he had heard from him lately.
"NQ," he said, "but I am afraid he is dead." And on my inquiring
why he thought so, he replied that on going out that morning early he
had seon his employer standing on the top of the steps that lead up to
the kiln door, as pla.inly as he ever had seen him in his life.
It was as he expected; the first news that came reported his
employer's death.
I have no doubt the man I speak of either saw this appearance,
or believed he saw it.
In answer to inquiries, this informant says :-
Marcl~ 12tl£, 1885.
Since receiving your letter I have had the curiosity to look over my
old diaries, thinking I might have made a. note of the occurrence, and
under the date of Thursday, the 22nd of October, 1863, I find the follow-
Dead.
ing: "Report of Mr. W.'s death. A M. saw his C wraith' on Tuesday
morning about 5 o'clock."
This differs somewhat from what I told you in my last letter, for I
said that the man had seen the appearance that same morning, inwhich
I spoke with him. Here it seems it was two days before. But still he
had told me before it was known for a certainty that Mr. W. was
dead. For you observe the word "dead" put in over the A. This I
know from my own habit was put in afterwards. There is no communi-
cation between this place and Lincoln, except on the market day, Friday.
At that time of year, moreover, the carriers who go to Lincoln would
not get back before night, and consequently I should most probably
not have learned the certainty of the report until some time on Satur-
day. Then instead of making a new note of it, I simply put in the
word" dead," to show that the report was true when I first heard it.
Moreover, I used the Scotch word "wraith" instead of "ghost" or
"spirit," as I had an ides. that the former word was applied to
a.ppearances before death.
I observe that the man said" about 5 o'clock." Of course, thi
would be a vag.le expression for any time up to 5.30, or thereabouts,
when the morning would not be very clear perhaps, but sufficiently so
to enable one to see an object some 10 or 12 yards off, and I am not
Sure it was quite so much.
Digitized by Google
384 Journal ofSociet!lfor P8!1cMcai Research. [May, 1885.
I cannot say that Mr. W. was dead at the time M. saw the
appearance, but he was certainly dead at the time he told me of it,
otherwise I should not have inserted the word" dead" where I did.
I may add that Mr. W. had formerly lived in this village, and I had
known him well. He had gone to live in Lincoln only a short time
before his death. His malt kiln was his only means of providing for
his wife and family-five or six young children-&nd he had been in the
habit of coming over to see how things went on, twice a week. There
is nothing more natural than that his thoughts, and they must have
been very anxious thoughts, should have been fixed on that one place.
The following is the percipient's own account :-
Ridley's Yard, North Gate, Newark, Notts.
Marc!, 16th, 1885.
I have received your letter asking me to forward to you what I said
about my dear Mr. Wright, for he was a very good master. I said I
saw him standing on the steps with one hand on the handrail; my light
went out, and I saw no more, and he died, an!I I hope he is at rest.
That was at 4 o'clock in the morning, before he departed from us.
J. MERRILL.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Merrill adds :-
Newark, April6t!t, 1885.
Sll~,-I am very sorry to let you know that I do not remember the
date that dear Mr.Wright died, but I think it was the latter end of 1863.
I looked myoId books over, but with the trade being carried on in the
same way, I have nothing to go by. I saw him as plain as in the
middle of the day, for he stood just the same as he did when he came
at noon, looking on to the house for me to go to him. I never saw
imything before, to my mind.-Your humble servant,
J. MERRILL, Maltster.
L.-1588-A pn
From Mrs. Muir, 42, Holland Park, W.
April7t!t, 1885.
In the year 1849 I was staying in Edinburgh. One Sunday as I
was dressing my second boy (aged five years) for church at about
'10.30 a.m., he looked up at me and said, "Mother, Cousin Janie is
dead." I asked him which Cousin Janie he meant, and he answered,
" Cousin Janie at the Cape, she's dead." I then tried to make him
explain why he thought so, but he only kept repeating the statement.
Digitized by Google
'May, 1885.] JOllrnal qf Society/01' P81Jcnical Resem·ch. 385
This" Cousin Janie" was So girl of about 16 who had been staying in
Edinburgh, and had gone out to the Cape with her parents some
months before. She had been very fond of my boys and had often
played with them. 1 was rather struck by the way the child kept
repeating what he had said, and wrote down the day and the hour, and
told my mother and sisters. Some time afterwards the Cape mail
brought the news that the girl had died on that very Sunday. She
had been badly burnt the night before, and had lingered.. on till a little
after mid day.
ALICE MUIR.
In answer to questions :-1. The child was not in the habit of
saying odd things of this kind. 2. As to the kind of impression 1
could discover nothing. 3. 1 have no record in writing, but it is
possible that my mother and sisters may remember the occurrence.
L.-1589-Ad pn
From Mrs. Walsh, of The Priory, Lincoln.
February 18tl" 1884.
Some time in the year 1862 (I think) 1 wo.s living with my
husband and family of little children, accompanied by our English
nurse, in apartments in the city of Brussels. The house we occupied
was a large one, and we rented the drawing-rOQm and the floor above.
The ground floor was occupied by the owner of the house, a Belgian,
and his wife and little children. We had no intercourse with this family ;
we had our own kitchen on the drawing-room floor, and the upper floor
consisted of nursery, with nursery bedroom opening from it. We
had So Flemish general servant, who went homp. about 9 every
night. Our English nurse was a very clever girl, about 22 or
23 years of age. She read a good deal, and taught herself
French. She was very matter-of-fact, a.nd handy and useful in
every way. She had been with me 5 or 6 years. Her parents
were labouring people in the neighbourhood of London, and by reading
and culture she had raised herself a good deal out of their sphere. We
had been about 12 months away from England, when the circumstance
1 write of happened. M.'s mother, after having a large family-the
youngest being about 9 or 10-did not tell M., nor did any of the
family, that she was again expecting an addition. The wife of our
landlord had been confined two days, so was in her own room, on the
ground floor of the house we lived in.
One night my husband and myself had been out to dinner. On
Digitized by Google
386 JOllrnfll qf Society lor PSYCkiCfil Research. [May. 1885.
returning, a little after 10 o'clock, my husband was amazed to find our
apartments in darkness, and he ran up to the nursery floor to complain
to M. of her inattention ;~as the other servant had gone home it was her
place to light our room. My husband found the nursery lighted, but
empty, and going towards the children's room he met M. coming
out. She" began, "Oh! I am" so glad to see you; I have been
so frightened that I was obliged to sit on Willie's bed till
you came in." I was"in the room by this time, and inquiring into
the cause of fear. M. said, "After I put the children to bed
I sat down in the nursery to my work, when I heard some one coming
up the stairs. I went to the door, and on the first landing by your
room, I saw, as I thought, Madame N. carrying something heavy. I
felt that she ought not to be out of her bed, and I called to her in
French: I J e viendrai vous aider,' running down the stairs to where I
supposed she was. 'When I got there it gave me a queer sensation to
find no one. How~ver, I said to myself, it was a shadow, and made
myself go back to my work. I had scarcely seated myself when &
voice called: I May, May, May' (the name my children called her). I
got up, went to the door, and seeing some one, ran half way down the
stairs to meet the woman, when a terrible dread came upon me, and I
rushed back to the nursery and sat on one of the little beds, feeling
that being with even a sleeping child was better than being alone." My
husband laughed at her, told her the vin ordinaire was too strong;
that she had been dreaming, &c. We none of us thought much of it,
till the first post from England brought M. a letter to say her mother
had been confined and she and the child had died within an hour after.
Then we all felt convinced that M.'s mother had been able to come and
see her daughter.
HARRIET WALBH.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Walsh says :-
At the time, I am sure she did not connect the appearance
with her own mother, nor did she recognise the voice. All she to~d us
was that she thought it was Madame Nyo. May's mother was
very much the same sort of person in appearance as Madame Nyo,
without there being any likeness; they were about the same age, figure,
and position in life. We only connected May's story with her night of
terror when she received the news from Engla.nd.
[The percipient of this case refuses a first-hand and signed account;
she has risen in life, and is very sensitive to anything which may recall
her former dependent position. Mr. J. J. Lias, who procured the narra-
tive for UII, tells us that he first heard it in the lifetime of Mr. Walsh,
who" was by no means a. credulous man, but a man of the world." It
Digitized by Google
;May, 1885.) JOllrnal Qf Society for P8ychical Re8earc1,. 387
is of course a weak point in the case that the figure was not recognised,
and that we cannot now ascertain how nearly the hour of the appari-
tion and that of the death coincided. They probably occurred within
a few hours of each other.]
L.-1590-Ad pn
Mr. S. Jennings, of Westbury House, Denmark Hill, S.E.,
writes:-
Marclt 24tlt, 1885.
My DEAR SIR,-In reply to your note, the occurrence [which is
narrated below] was related to me by Mr. Nelson himself, since dead.
He told me, as nearly as I can remember, in the year 1868, but the
event itself must have taken place four or five years before.
At the time he told me he was frequently in the haBit of thus
writing under some external influences, some of which he describes as
agreeable and others very much the reverse. He showed me a book in
which these writings were made, and I was much surprised at the
singular differences in the apparently various handwritings. I also
remember his saying that he could recognise the identity of some of
these influences.
I never had any reason to do otherwise than believe what he said,
particularly as he was always very reticent on the subject, which he
said concerned nobody but himself.-Yours sincerely,
SAMUEL J ENNING8.
The following is from a letter written by. Mr. Jennings to Professor
Barrett, on September 26th, 1882. After describing Mr. Nelson's
automatic writing, he says :-
I should note that the handwriting in this [Mr. Nelson's] book was
as varied as possible-8ometimes in a light, delicate, pointed hand, and
at other times big, black, blurred, and heavy. He said that at times he
became conscious of the presence of this external influence, which he
could never get rid of without providing writing materials. On one
occasion this feding seized him in the train when travelling from
Raneegunge to Calcutta, and he tore a leaf out of a book and laid it
on the seat of the carriage, his hand grasping a pencil resting upon it.
Ordinarily, to write under such conditions would be impossible in a
train rushing along; the motion .would effectually prevent it. Never·
theless, a long communication was made purporting to be from his
daughter, who was at school in England. It contained a simple account
of her illness and death, described the circumstances under which i~
occurred, and the persons who were present, adding that she wished to
say good-bye to her father before leaving. This" threw Mr. N. into a.
Digitized by Google
388 Journal of Society for P81Jchical Re8earch. [May, 1885
state of great excitement, for he did not even know of his daughter~s
illness. He went home and said he was very uneasy about Bessie in
England. Finally, he gave this note to his married daughter, Mrs.
R., to keep till they could hear by the ordinary post. The child
had in reality died that very day, and under the very circumstances
thus mysteriously communicated to Mr. N. I haye subsequently
received some con'oborative evidence regarding this young lady's death
from an entire stranger to the family.
L-1591-Ad pd
From Rev. G. L Fenton, Villa Carli, San Remo.
February, 1885.
Sm,-You have probably received many reports of what may be
called, "apparitions in transitu." The following was told to me by three
maiden ladies, my aunts, women of unimpeachable veracity, who were
all present at the time.
Their uncle, a clergyma.n in London, had been obliged to give up his
profession through failing health, and to return to his native to~
Newcastle--under-Lyme. He was engaged to a cousin, who was herself
very delicate, and when he was on his death-bed he expressed a strong
desire to see the lady to whom he was attached. On receiving the
message (there were no railways or telegrams ir. those days) she instantly
started from home, but was taken ill on the way.
Meanwhile the dying man and his three nurses were anxiously
expecting her arrival. Suddenly he half-rose in bed, and exclaimed :-
"She is dead-at the Hop-pole, in Worcester." These were his last
words. The next post informed his friends that it was even so ! I
believe the event occurred in 1783, when he was in his 37 t~ year.
This gentleman and his three nurses all bore the narnEl of yours
faithfully, G. L. FENTON.
Villa Carli, San Remo, Italy.
Marcl~ 18th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-My reply to yours of 27th ult. has been delayed by
reference to my eldest sister. This was well, as the result is partly. a
correction and partly a confirmation of my statement. I stated I have
often heard the story from my aunts whe!l a boy, and I had fonned the
impression that they themselves were the nurses and witnesses. You
very justly pointed out a discrepancy in dates. Mrs. Clarke's note,
enclosed, removes this, but of course renders the evidence less direct
than before. Should you make any use of this, kindly make the
necessary coITections.-Yours very truly,
G. L. FENTON.
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] JOltrnal qf 8ociet1llor Psychical Research. 389
From Mrs. W. H. Clarke to her brother, the Rev. G. L. Fenton.
Woodville, Douglas, Isle of Man.
March 15th, 1885.
I have a rough, b\tt I believe correct, copy of the "Fenton
pedigree," by which it appears that this "Rev. John" was baptised
1746 and died 1783.
Our Aunt Caroline was born 1778, so that she, the oldest of our
three aunts, would be but five years old when her uncle died. They,
therefore, were not his nurses; probably his own sister-our grand-
mother, born in 1742-and her sister-in law, " Hester," [born in] 1744.
I don't suppose you, any more than myself, ever made any note of
the incident. All I can vouch for is, that I have heard it spoken of at
different times in the family circle, discussed by my grandmother and
a.unts, related occasionally by my father, and never a shadow of doubt
about it. Wheuever such things were referred to, this 'Was related as a
eertainty by anyone of that generatioa who happened to be present.
You know that most of my childhood was pasRed with my aunts and
grandmother, and I can't remember when this history was.not engraven
on my memory, hearing about it so very frequently.
[If Mrs. Clarke's grandmother was present, then the evidence is as
good as second-hand; for she was cognisant of the impression bejore
the news confirming it arrived. Cases where the agent and percipient
are both dying are necessarily rare, otherwise we should hardly print an
a.ccount of an incident recorded a hundred years after its occurrence.J
L.-1592-Ae pn -(Borderland)
From a gentleman residing at Tynemouth, who will allow his name
to be published after an interval of a few years.
Deceniber, 1884.
On December 29th, or 30th, 1881, about 1 a.m., I awoke hearing
my name called. Nobody was in the house, the servants being away
for a holiday. I recognised the voice of my father.
Next afternoon I received a telegram saying he was unwell, and on
arriving I learnt from the doctor that my father had been unconscious,
and had repeatedly called for me during the night in question. I had
no idea of his illness at the time, and believed him to be perfectly well.
The attack was very short and severe. He was in Dumfries, and I at
Tynemouth, Northumberland.
In answer to inquiries our informant says :-
Decenwer 27th, 1884.
I paid no attention to the "auditory experience," although the thing
Digitized by Google
390 Journal o/SOciety for P8!Jckical Re8earch. [May,l885.
came to my mind while dressing, and probably should never have
given it further attention if I had not been struck by the fact that
apparently at or about the same time my father, although unconscious,
had been calling for me. I had no means of cqmparing the exact
times, as neither the doctor (whose name I forget, and who is now
dead) nor I noted them. This curious coincidence impressed the fact
on my mind, the more so as I have never been able to find any reason-
able explanation of the case; and as the tendency of my education has
been to believe nothing tha.t can't be accounted for logically I have
almost come to doubt the fact, and in consequence have kept it to
myself.
I never have had, either before or since the case I mentioned
already, any hallucination of the senses. It may perhaps have some
bearing on the case, so I add this postscript to say that at one time,
when in sound health, my father was one of the most skilful amateur
mesmerists I ever knew; his power over some people being quite
extraordinary, and sometimes it was exerted almo.l)t unconsciously by
him.
L.-1593-Ae Pi
From Mrs. Drummond Smithers to Miss Porter.
Bridge House, Crookham, Farnham, Hants.
November 2200, 1884.
DEAR MADAM,-My father [Mr. Thomas Pickerden] was an archi-
tect and builder, which obliged him to be about very early of mornings ;
and on Monday, the 19th January, 1857. at 7 a.m., whilst on his way
to see some of his men, he fell, in a fit of some kind. That same
morning I perfectly well remember not falling asleep until after
2 a.m., having counted the clock up to that hour, and wondering why
I could not sleep, as I always slept well at that time. As we breakfasted
at 10 a.m. in those days, we were not early risers, so probably it might
have been 8 or 9 o'clock before I woke. I cannot make a nearer
statement, as I am not positive as to the time; but my dream was between
the hours ~entioned. It was that my father had been taken suddenly
ill in the streets of Hastings, that he was put into a fly by two men,
and taken home·-when I woke. The dream seemed to impress me very
much. I tried not to think seriously of it; having dressed and break_
fasted, still the dream haunted me. I could not shake it off. When I
spoke to my sisters-in-law, with whom I was staying (my then husband
was their brother) they advised me to tell him, which I did, and he at
once granted my request of going on to Hastings. He left me at
Etchingham Station, and going direct to our home, Hawkhul'st, he
found a telegram there to the effect that my father was ill, and that I
Digitized by Google
May,l885.] Journal of SOciety for P8ychical Re8earclt. 391·
was to go at once. I had by this time reached Hastings and found my
dream verified.
The event occurring so many years back, not one witness is living.
-I remain, dear madam, yours truly, .
ANNIE SMITHERS.
In the same letter Mrs. Smithers says :-" The dream preceded my
fa.ther's sudden illness some few hours;" but the account shows that
there is no reason to suppose this.
29th. DecemiJer, 1884.
DEAR MISS PORTER,-In my dream I did not actually see my
fR.ther fall, but was at the spot just as the fly was going off, and saw
distinctly there were two persons inside the fly, but the back of one
man who was holding my father prevented my recognising him ; the man
on the box I distinctly saw and knew him as a flyman of Hastings,
and he WR.S the man who drove my fR.ther on that fatal mornillg-for
so it proved, as he never rallied from that illness, never was out of his
bed more than to have it made a few times. He died 5th March, 1857. I
never knew him to have an illness previous to that, nor fit of any kind;
he always appeared a healthy strong man; a well-made man, too, tn.ll,
well-proportioned, not stout or short-necked-such figures are more
liable to sudden death or fits, I think. I am generally so free from
dreaming that this one made a great impression upon me at the time.-
Believe me, yours truly,
ANNIE SMITIIERS.
L.-1594-Ae ps
From Mrs. Walsh, of The Priory, Lincoln.
February, 1884.
The gentleman who teaches music in my house tells me that if any-
thing sad or terrible happens to anyone he loves, he always has an
intimation of it. He does not know what it is, but he says that he
writes off to his own or his sisters' homes-" What is the matter 1
there is something wrong,"-and the return post brings him the history
of either dangerous illness or accident.
He is a young man of a very highly strung organisation. Possibly,
his education in music, for which he has a passion, put him out of
ordinary spheres. He reads books on art, music, drawing, poetry, and
he is deeply interested in all religious studies. About young men's pur-
suits, gR.mes, athletic sports, and his own affairs, money matters, &c.,
he seems indifferent. So much for the medium. Now for my story,
peculiar, because though a fact, I see no good in it.
I am very fond of Mr. --, and I know he looks on me as a very
Digitized by Google
392 JOlwnal qf Sociefyfor P8gchical Re8earch. [May,l885.
true old friend, and one of my sons, now in India, is the dearest
friend he has.
I went out one morning about 9 o'clock, carrying books for the
library, and being very busy, took the short way to town. On some flags
in a very steep part of the road, some boys had made a slide. Both my
feet flew away at the same moment that the back of my head resounded
on the flags. A policeman picked me up, saw I was hurt, and rang at the
Nurses' Home close by, to get me looked to. My head was cut, and
while they were washing the blood away, I was worryingmyself that I
should be ill, and how should I manage my school till the end of the
term. I told no one in my house but my daughter, and no one but the
policeman had seen me fall. I asked my daughter to tell no one. I
had a miserably nervous feeling, but I pretended to her it was nothing.
The next morning, after a sleepless night, I could not get up. It was
my habit to sit in the drawing-room while the music lessons were given,
so my daughter went in to tell Mr. -- that I had had a bad night,
and was not yet up. He said, "I had a wretched night, too, and all
through 0. most vivid dream." " What was it 1" she asked. "I dreamed
I was walking by the Nurses' Home, and I came on a slide, both my feet
slipped, and I fell on the back of my head. I was helped to the Home,
and while my hc.ad was being bathed I was worrying myself how I
should manage my lessons till the end of the term, and the worrying
feeling would not go."
From Mr. J. J. Hoare, 12, St. Nicholas Square, Lincoln.
MareTt 3rd, 1884.
I shall be very pleased to relate, I hope lucidly, the account of a
dream, as described byMrs. Walsh most accurately, which took place on
a Tuesday evening early in November of 1882. The dream consisted of
this: I supposed I was going down the stairs, when I had a
faU at the first flight, was picked up, and helped by a policeman to the
Nurses' Institute, about 20 yards from the imaginary fall, being
there attended by a nurse. I was much perplexed as to how I should
manage to finish my work during the term. This was followed the
next morning by a severe ):Ieadache in the region of the imaginary blow.
On seeing Miss Walsh' the following morning, I was told by her that
Mrs. Walsh was unwell, but not the cause. I replied I too felt unwell
and accounted for it through the dream. Mrs. Walsh related to me
the same evening her own adventure, which in every detail exactly
coincided with my dream, as happening to myself. I in no way knew
of Mrs. WaIsh's mishap till the evening after, when told by herself.
In another instance, whilst staying in Devonshire, I received an
impression, or felt a conviction, that something had happened to Mrs.
Walsh. I think I wanted to write, so confident WIl.S I of somelJring
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] Jou,,"nal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 393
having taken place, but desisted because I had left Lincoln through an
outbreak of small-pox in the house next my rooms, only the previous
week, so was unwilling to correspond. On my return here, I found
out that both my day [i.e., the day of the impression] and the accident
-a fall-were true.
In many other instances have I received similar experiences, and
so confident have I been always',of their accuracy that I have written
to the persons and places, and always received confirmation of my
impressions. I might add that the impressions have always been of
persons whom I dearly love or greatly honour. If the dream is of an
evening, I see always the person or persons. If the impression be
received during the day, it makes me excessively restless, with a con-
sciousness of something happening. I hope I may have made myself
understood. I have given only a few cases. I have had, I think,
10 or 12 impressions. I should add that the events have always been
at a distance, without any previous knowledge of even ante~edent
occurrences in cases of illness, and, on my word of .honour, there
has never been any collusion. I shall be quite ready to answer any
questions bearing on myself. I have never thought about these occur-
rences afterwards, but if it may advance science, or be of service to
yourself, I shall do so with pleasure.
J. J. HOARE.
12, St. Nicholas Terrace, Lincoln.
Marcl& 1ltll, 1884.
Although I have never taken any note of impressions, still,
certainly, in every case have they been followed by corresponding
events. Whilst attaching importance to them and belief, till my
correspondence with yourself [Professor Sidgwick] I never thought
seriously of the cause of such impressions. They are quite unlike
fits of low spirits and indigestion, and I can easily distinguish them
from such, as in every case I have been most conscious of outside
action. I will keep notes when occasion may arise, as you suggest.
J. J. HOARE.
L.-1595-Ae Pi
From Miss R., a Member of the S. P. R.
~lJarcl& 5tlt, 1885.
Two friends of ours, Mr. X. and Mr. Y., lived together till the
marriage of Mr. X., and were, therefore, intimately associated in our
minds.
Jt happened that though Mrs. X. and I had exchanged cards we
had not met, and I merely knew her by sight at the time when Mr. Y,
Digitized by Google
394 Journal ofSociefy for P81Jchical Ratarch. [May. 1885.
also married. But as I had found Mrs. Y. at home I was slightly
acquainted with her.
It was a few months after Mr. Yo's marriage, on the night of
May 14th, 1879, when my dream occurred. I was staying at Bristol
at the time. It seemed to me that I was ma.king my first call on Mrs.,
Y., and that she proceeded to show me her trousseau-a thing that would
never have occurred to her in actual1ife, or to any but very intimate
friends. A variety of dresses were displayed, and as I was looking at
a black-net evening dress, with crimson trimmings, thinking it was
very 1ike one of my own, a sudden transformation took place. Mrs.
Y. had changed into Mrs. X., and the dress was a widow's dress com-
plete. I woke very strongly impressed with the dream, and mentioned
it to my father the next morning. It haunted me till, on May 15th or
16th, I saw the TimeB announcement of Mr. Xo's death.
Afterwards I learnt that, on the afternoon preceding my dream,
Mr. X. had returned home, apparently in his usual good health, only
rather tired, but within half-an-hour had died of quite unsuspected
heart disease.
My father was ill at the time of my dream, and does not remember
the circumstance. But my sister remembers it clearly and testifies to
the fact.
A.E.R.
J.T.R.
[The name of Mr. X. was given in confidence.]
In answer to inquiries, Miss R. says ;-
My sister was not with me, so I could not speak about it to her. I
cannot find any of my letters written after May 14th, so do not know if
I wrote to her on the 15th or n~t. But slle came to me (as my father
was taken seriously ill about that date) and heard of the dream and of
the death at the time [i.e., she heard of the dream at the same time
as she heard of the death]. I am quite certain that the dream was on
the night of the day of death, May 14th, as the sister-in-Iaw's letter
[i.e., the letter in which Miss R. received the news] proves it to have
been.
L.-1596-Ad ps
From Mr. Ridley, 19, Belsize Park, N.W.
Marcl~ 5tl~, 1885.
Whilst staying at Mrs. Mo's in June, 1867, on the night either
of June 3rd or 4th, I had a vivid dream that I saw an old friend
[name given in confidence] lying dead with a wound in his head.
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] Journal of SOciety/or P81/cMcal Researcl,. 39!)
noting the colour of his hair and other particulars. I t.old Mrs. M.
of this dream, and later in the day we heard that the friend I had seen
in my dream had actually been killed by a blow on the head, in a fall
from a conveyance, on the night before the dream. The wound was on
the opposite side of the head from that seen in my dream.
The scene of the accident was some miles from the house whero 1
was staying.
J. R.
Mr. Ridley's daughter adds, in a postscript :-
There is some uncertainty whether the dream was on the same night.
or on the night following the accident.
It was certainly before any news of the death reached. the dreamer.
Question put by Miss R. to Mrs. ]\:[awson, of Ashfield, Go.teshead,
with whom Mr. R. was staying at the time of the dream.-Can you
remember anything of a dream of my father's at your house, of which
he told you, in the morning, of the death of J. M. before the news
came 1 And can you remember the cause of death 1
...Yarcl, 3rd, 1885.
Answer.-You ask if I can remember about your papa's dre!l.m
before J. M.'s death. I remember very distinctly his telling me his
dream, and how strongly it impressed me at the time. I remember that
your papa had the dream, and spoke of it before the news of J. M.'s
death reached him, but I cannot call to mind exactly what was the
cause of death-in the dream I mean; but I think your ·papa thought he
saw him injured by a fall from his horse or conveyance. I think he
told me that he saw him lying on the ground injured, and his wife
mourning and weeping over him, but I cannot be certain of the exact
particulars, only I know that the dream was singularly like what in
reality took place on the very same night. E. M.
Question put by Miss R. to Miss C., a resident in the village where
J. M. lived.-Can you find for me the exact date of J. M.'s death ~
We cannot remember it, and I wish to verify an occurrence which I
know took place at the time. Can you get any information about the
accident 1
West Boldon,
Marcl, 4tll, 1885.
Answer.-To-day I saw E. M. (now Mrs. H., the daughter of
J. M.). Her father died June 4th, 1867. On the morning of that
day, as MrS. M. M. was on her way to Hylton, she found him lying
insensible at a turn of the road. He was in the habit of driving
Digitized by Google
396 JrJUrnrtl of Societ!lfor Psychical Research. [May, 1880.
- - - - - -
furiously, and it was supposed that he had not managed the corner,
and so was thrown out. He never recovered consciousness.
AC.
Miss R. adds :-My father has not had any other dreams of death
that have made any impression.
A.E.R.
1597-Ae Ppa
From Mrs. Muller, 8, Bevington Road, Oxford.
January, 1885.
I dreamed that I was at Hastings, on the shore. I saw my friend,
Miss Adams, running towards me. She passed me by, and then took
()fl' her hat and bent her head down into the sea. I tried to grasp her
by her clothes, but she cried out, "Don't stop me, for my mother is
dying." In the morning I jumped out of bed on hearing the post, and
said to Marianne Varah, "Have you had a letter from Miss Adams 1
There must be something the matter with her mother." Miss Varah
answered: "I have a letter, but have not opened it. I have had a very
strange dream, but I thought nothing of it, because Mr. Adams is so
ill." Miss Varah then opentld her letter, and called out, "You are
right." There were a few lines, "My mother is dangerously ill:
doctors say no hope. We will send a telegram." The telegram came
during the morning of February 24th, 1876, saying she was dead. She
had been in perfect health the day before.
Neither Miss Varah nor myself are at all given to dreams, and had
not till then believed in them at all.
E:IIILY E. MULLER.
Mrs. Giles, of Cherwell Lodge, Oxford, a friend of the parties, says:--,-
Mrs. Adams died at 11 o'clock on the night of the 23rd February,
and the two ladies, Mrs. Mull!1r and lVliss Varah, are not certain of the
exact time of their dreams, but they must have been between 11 and 12
or very soon aftet' 12,
From Miss Varah, 40, James Street, Cowley Road, Oxford.
A friend of mine, Mr. Adams, was seriously ill, and we were
expecting his death. I had a dream that I saw the corpse of his wife
laid out upon a bed, though we had no reason to suppose that she was
even ill. A friend with whom I was staying also drelLmed that she
saw Mrs. Adams a corpse. [This is not accurate.] The morning's post
brougllt news of her dangerous illness, and a telegram during the morn-
ing anlLounced her death. My friend and T told each other our dreams
Digitized by Coog
May, 1885.] Journal of Society lor Psychical ReBearck. :j97
in the morning at breakfast. My friend had called for her letters.
before coming down in the morning, fearing bad news.
MARIANNE V ARAB.
1598-L.-Ae pa
From Mr. A. W. Orr, Kingston Road, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Jamr,ary 2nd, 1885.
Some 40 years ago "my father was house-surgeon at the City of
Dublin Hospital, and one day a young man, a sail.or, was brought in.
who had fallen from one of the yards of the vessel on which he served.
He was badly injured, and in about three days he died. Late in the
afternoon of the day on which the man died, an old woman, very pOOl'"
and fagged, came up to the hospital and asked to see the surgeon. My
father saw her and inquired what he could do for her; when she inquired
whether a young sailor had been brought to that institution, and if so.
could she see him. 1\'1y father told her of the man above mentioned.
and that he had died that morning.
It turned out that the old woman was the young man's
mother, that she lived in the Co. Carlow, and that t.hree
nights pre"iously she had dreamt that her son had fallen from the
rigging of the vessel and had been taken to an hospital. So vivid was
the dream that she could not rest till she got to Dublin (where she had
never been before), and the moment she saw the hospital she recognised
it as the building she had seen in her dream. Her dream was only too
true, for she found that her son had dif'd from the effects of injuries
occasioned by a fall just as appeared in her dream.
The old woman had walked a distance of over 60 miles, and entered
the city by the road which passed the front of the hospital.
A. W. ORR.
January 7th, 1885.
In a second letter Mr. Orr says;-
You may rely upon the facts being as I have stated them, as I have
frequently spoken to my father on the subject, the case being of such a
very remarkable character. .
L.-1599-An Pi
From Bishop Courtenay (formerly Bishop of Kingston, Jamaica).
L'Ermitage, Hyeres, France.
Janua'l"'lJ 28tl~, 1885.
Some years ago I had young children who were allowed, when in
the drawing-room, to amuse themselves with playing with a set of red
Digitized by GoogIe
398 Jourllal qf Societ!; fm' P8!1chical Beaearcn. [May, 1885.
and white ivory chessmen. They were not allowed to take the chess-
men into their nursery.
11; was their mother's constant habit to visit her nursery almost
immediately on rising in the morning.
One morning she dreamed that she had received a letter from a.
brother in a distant part of the world,in which he enclosed the upper half
of the head and neck of 0. red ivory chess-knight, saying that he thought
it must belong to her. O~ waking, and going as usual into the nursery,
her eldest little boy ran up to her, saying, "Oh, mamma., see what I
have found," and holding up the head of an ivory chessman-a knight.
A good instance of the sympathy on which all true thought-reading
must depend. Probably, into a dream about a letter from her brother
intruded the idea of the red knight's head, and was blended with it.
REGINALD COURTENAY.
In answer to inquiries, Bishop Courtenay says :-
Hotel de L'Ermitage, Hyeres.
Feb7"l.w,ry 7th, 1885.
The dream was not related to me by my wife before she went
into her nursery. Except for what followed, there was nothing
remarkable in it. To me its special value lies in its trivial and
~ommonplace character.
[The case may conceivably have been telepathic; but it would be
impossible at this distance of time to make quite sure that the detached
head, or the stump from which it had been broken, had not been seen,
perhaps unconsciously, by Mrs. Courtenay, shortly before; or, if the
head belonged to one of the set of chessmen that the children were in
the habit of playing with, the fact that one of the knights was minus
a head would probably be a nursery commonplace which might easily
have come to her ears. This would of course have been sufficient to
account for the feature in the dream.l
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] Jom'nalof Sockt!/ for Psychical Research. 399
MR. EGLINTON'S SLATE-WRITING.
The following account of a seance with Mr. Eglinton is sent by a
gentleman whom we have reason to regard as an acute and careful
observer:-
"I.bought a three-leaf book slate on the way, one that had three loops
and could be fastened with a stick of pencil, as small pocket-books are often
made. The first trials Mr. Eglinton made were with his own slate, which I
had previously cleaned, and marked with my name to avoid changing. With
this nothing occurred. He then took my slate, I having inserted a crumb of
pencil and seen that it was all secure. It was then placed on the corner of
the table, and we both rested our hands upon it. Shortly, in answer to my
question, 'Are the conditions favourable l' the pencil could distinctly be
heard writing inside the slate, and when the three tap'! indicated that the
message was finished, I unfastened the slate, and on one of the leaves found,
, Yes, the conditions are very good.'
" Then followed a few trials, for which Mr. Eglinton held a slate under the
table, with one hand, and writing was thus obtained, in answer to casual
inquiries. The slate was always clea.ne,.l by me ; it had my name on it; the
writing was always on the surface next the table; it was always found on the
extreme edge ()f the slate farthest from the medium; alwaYI! ttpside down
with regard to him: and the pencil could always be heard writing. Moreover,
a great part of his hand, and all his wrist was in view, and the slightest
attempt at movement could nl)t, I believe, have passed undetected.
" HClwever, the most satisfactory experiments were these. Mr. Eglinton
has a strong mahogany book slate with a Bra.hma lock. On this I was re-
quested to write the name of a deceased relation, mentioning tlle relationship,
and asking a question. To make the thing as conclusive as possible I ·took
the slate into the adjoining room, stood away from all mirrors, windows, etc.,
and wrote, 'Mrs. D--,-grandmother-are you present, and able to
communicate l' I then quickly locked the slate, put the key into my pocket,
and went back to Mr. Eglinton, never once letting the slate leave my hand.
He then placed another slate half under the tallIe, closely pressed against the
under-surface; in a few seconds writing commenced, and the following was
found :-' Your grandmother, Mrs. D--, is not able to write, but she
sends her love.' I then, for the first time, unlocked the slate, and showed
him what I had written. At this point Mr. Eglinton was called away to two
ladies, and I seized the opportunity to write on tIle Brahma. slate: ' Fmnk
G--,-cousin-are you present, and able to write to me l' Then I locked
it, and waited for Mr. Eglinton to return. Upon hearing what I had done,
he took a slate-the one marked with my name-thoroughly cleaned it, with
my help, threw a crumb of pencil upon it, covered it with another clean one,
and gave me the two to hold with him. We were then sitting opposite to
each other, each holding the two slates, and right away from the table. In
a second or two I could not only hear the pencil, but could feel it writing,
and could localise the BOund and vibration as undoubtedly issuing from
between the two slates. III one minute at the most, the signal of completion
was given, and the underneath slate was found filled with writing, in three
Digitized by Google
400 Journal of Socief?/ for Psychical Research. [May, 1885.
directions, and signed 'Frank.' I have the slate now, with the writing
on it.
" I forgot to mention that I always made a point of engaging Mr. Eglinton
in conversation during the time the writing was taking place. I may also
add that the communication purporting to come from' Frank' does not
strike me at all as being the sort of thing he would write."
NOTES ON REPORTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
[We have received the following criticism on the narratives published
by the Literary Committee and the Haunted House Committee, from
an Associate of the Society, Mr. Davies, of Kingsbridge. It was not
compiled with any idea of pUblication, and it is only in consequence of
the request of the Committees concerned that Mr. Davies allows
it to appear in the Journal. We were anxious that he should do so,
because as the object of the Socillty for Psychical Research (like that
of any other scientific society) is not to plead a cause, but to discover
the truth in its own department of investigation, whatever that truth
may be, intelligent criticism of its publications, as well as new facts or
arguments on either side, are welcomed.
We are glad to print it for another reason. There has always been
cause to fear that some·of our informants-even some of those who have
been most kind in helping the Committees to obtain corroborative
evidence, and details as to dates and other matters-may have thought
their desire for this excessive, troublesome, and even offensive. If this
should be so, we are glad to have an opportunity of showing them the
need of it, if the narratives are to be of value to persons who have no
pr~judice against the investigation, but have not the advantage of
personal acquaintance with the narrators.
Some reply from members of the Committees to:Mr. Davies'remarks
is appended.-ED.]
In reading through the transactions of the Psychical Society I have
noticed in many cases quoted as authorities or examples of the subjects
dealt with in the various reports, that the dates given are rather remote,
and in a few instances the anecdotes are dateless. Now it may be fairly
urged that however honest the witness to a bygone fact or occurrence
may be, yet his impressions of that fact or occurrence must of necessity
undergo a certain amount of change, or lose a certain amount of vivid-
ness, by the influence of time, especially where the occurrence was not
noted down in writing at the time,and there is, as time elapses, less and
Digitized by Coog
::May, 1885.] JOU1'nal of Soc,'et?l/or P811cllical ReRem·cl,. 401
less chance of trustworthy corroboration. I illustrate my remarks by a
few examples taken from the reports.
In Vol. J., page 30, is an anecdote, which the writer dates back to
1848. There is no evidence supplied that the incident on the battle-
neld really happen~ at all, as Colonel L. is not called in to corro-
borate,and there is nothing to indicate that the incidentwas duly recorded
in writing about the time. In the next example, page 31, there is no
dl\te whatever given to the occurrence, and no evidence of any record in
writing. In the same page, another dateless example is given, and 011
second-hand evidence. On page 10i, there is a story dated 1852, and
the report on it conveys the impression that the occurrence was written
down for the first time in 1882. The story has a considerable amount of
"hearsay" in it. On page 108 there is a story dated 1862. There is
no evidence here that the occurrences were noted down, and on page 110,
T. M. B.'s letter, paragraph 3, there is evidently a doubt experienced by
the narrator as to the genuineness of the apparition. It may be noted
that if the presence of a ghost is once suspected in a hOllse, nearly every
one will anticipate its appearance with nervous apprehension, and thus a.
ghost is evolved sometimes out of" inner consciousness," and sometimes
out of very solid materials, such as clockcases, old trees, &c., &c. At
the foot of page 111, it may be observed that Susan Taylor was evidently
a common-sense sceptic, to whom ghosts would not deign to appear. If
these stories related to events which occurred last year or the year
before, and were now open to investigation by a scientific committee, I
should be inclined to place more reliance upon them; but I do not see
that any of the Society's inquirers have as yet unearthed a ghost. It is
strange that the houses mentioned do not seem to be open to the
examination of competent men,nor do the servants and their antecedents
appear to have been inquired about. On pages 121 and 122 there is a
story of what the narrator's grandmotherhad heard respecting the great
grandmother, and without impugning th" good faith of the parties, I
consider the story should not be cited as evidence. On page 122, Com-
mander Aylesbury may be quite correct in stating that he actually saw
the matters stated in his vision, but what evidence is there that the
family were engaged as he saw them, or that they heard his voice
coincidently 1 On the same page is a story open to the same objectioh
of age. On page 124, Mr. Symonds relates a story dated 1858. The
statements are not verified, and it is open to the objection of age. In the
same page there is a story of a schoolboy told with every appearance of
truth, but it certainly must be difficult for Mrs. Hope to name the 8th
or 9th September as a date, unless a record had heen kept of the matter
at the time, or unless the date was adopted by innocent but leading
suggestion. The question appears to crop up as to the certai,,!-ty of the
tale of the apparition being rela.ted before the boy· had news of the
Digitized by Google
402 Journal 01 Society lor P81Jchical Raearcn. [May, 1885.
manner of the death, as he would probably when (and after) he knew of
the death, dream of it, and innocently tell his dream a short time after,
as happening b'!fore the event. On page 126 is another dateless grand-
mother's story, the narrator testifying to a number of matters of which
she had no possible personal knowledge. On the same page we have the
first story within a reasonable date,and it is a fair example of the theory
treated of. Mr. and Mrs. Keulemans are probably living, and the matter
is only too fresh in their memory. On page 127, the story is second-
hand, and open to the objection of date. On page 128 the objection to
date obtains, with a suggestion that the child Sarah, afte:r the death,
said she had seen the ghost. The other story on the same page is date-
less, and subject to the objection that no inquiry was made as to the
time of death. On page 129 Mrs. Hunter tells a story of what happened
in 1857, to which date the same objection of age obtains. I may remark
that possibly the child had been frightened by her mother's telling the
queer story of the coffin in her hearing. On page 130 the story is open
to the objection of age, and, further, how could the narrator identify the
date (he says "same evening." What evening 1) when he was only
five or six years old 1 The narrator may have been told the story
often in his childhood, has perhaps dreamed it once or twice since, and
now believes it really occurred. The next story on the same page is open
to the objection of age, and the reader is left to imagine that Liston was
dead, but there is no mention of the matter. On page 131, Mr. Berthon's
story is third-hand as to the important fact, and dateless. On the same
page Miss Peard's story is second-hand, practically dateless, and has no
corroborative evidence. On page 132 the date is more recent,but it may
be suggested that the two young gent~emen and the boy did come into
the avenue gate, and were seen by Miss Eyre, who has unconsciously
post-dated the appearance. Did she make a note of the date when the
news of the accident reached her, or was the date put down some time
after 1 There is internal evidence in the Canon's letter that the date
was fixed in his mind by the regatta, and consequently could be fixed by
after reference. The mother's account is wanting to corroborate the
narrative, but she could be interviewed unawares by a stranger who
should not suggest facts and dates. On page 133 the Fltory of Bishop
Wilberforce, provided the occurrence is noted in his diary, dated 13th
(February, probably 1 even here the date fails), may be taken to be fairly
cited in support of the report of the Committee. I presume the letter
of 4th March, 1847 and the diary, are still in existence,· and could be
verified. On same page Mrs. Gates' story is dateless, and the feeling may
ha.ve been unconsciously suggested by her son's rather leading letter. As
the lady is subject to this sort of thing, the Society would do well to
persuade her to keep a diary. On page 134 the story is a fair example,
hut Mr. Fryer,for fear of mistake,should get his brother's testimonythat
Digitized by Google
May,l885.] Journal qf Society for PS!fchical Re8earch. 403
the two occurrences were simultaneous. Probably a record was made of
the occurrence immediately on the brother's arrival at home. On page
134, the second story is open to the objection of remote date and was
probably not recorded at the time. The next story is open to the same
objection as to date, and the point of the whole story is gone, by the
admission that the dates of the apparition and illness cannot be shown
to be identical. On page 135 the story is dateless, but evidently
ancient, and consequently, although it may be believed in by the
narrator, should not be accepted by a scientific inquirer. The narrator
also supplies hearsay evidence of words spoken by the boy. The next
story is also dateless, and the evidence of Mr. and Mrs. Owen and Mrs.
Jones should have been taken. The narrator cannot possibly tell what
they saw, or what they did not see, especially as by his own evidence
he was not present. On page 137 is a fair recent example, and could
probably be corroborated by the diary of the writer. It is possible,
though, in this case that the writer may have predisposed his mind,but
even this could not detract much from the value of the evidence.
On page 137 is a story dateless and second-hand, but the materials for
making it good seem to exist. Would it not be better in these cases to
verify first and publish afterwards 1 The date of the pilot's deat.h could
be ascertained, as there mttst have been an inquest. The story on page
138 is recent as to date, but the subject-matter is purposely obscured,
so as to prevent any opinion upon it. On page 139,docamentary evidence
being forthcoming, the story would be a fair one. On page 141 is a.
recent story, but from my knowledge of the yarns of Devonshire fisher-
folk, I should not place implicit reliance on any wonderful tales. I
suspect that the tale was fitted to the death. Dates of the drowning
could easily be supplied by newspaper evidence, and Mrs. Strong and
others could be cross-examined as to the statements made by Mrs.
Barnes. The next story is open to the objection of remoteness of date.
and is a narrative of what someone else said. The next story is too
remote. On page 142 there is a story not very recent and certainly
not very extraordinary. The superintendent of police had been
informed of the disappearance, and having found no traces of the girl,
naturally concluded she was concealed in the house, and said so to Miss
Phillips. The only portion of the story that bears Oil the supernatur'.l1
or on the work of the Committee is a little bit of hearsay. M!".
Strefford, jun., did not hear his father say, in the middle of the night,
to his mother that the girl was in the chimney. I question, also.
whether the statement is correct that the superintendent of police had
not been in the house prior to the time he found the girl. It certainly
is highly improbable, as, if the girl had been reported missing, he would
have inquired at the house first.
I DOW pass on to Part VI., page 122. Mr. James Wilson narrates
Journal of Society for P8.vckical Re8earcll. [May, 1881).
certain circumstances. There is evidence in the first sentence of an
effort to remember. There is no date assigned, and it is only by guess-
ing the age of the na.rra.tor that it can be approximated. There is no
evidence that the unusual circumstances were recorded either by the
narrator or his friend. In pages 122 and 123 the same remarks as to
dates, remoteness, and want of corroborative evidence apply, and as to
the letter on page 123 the evidence of the sister-in-law is wanting, the
date is remote, and there is no evidence of anyrecord at the time. On pages
124 and 125 the same objection as to remoteness of date obtains in Mrs.
Harland's experiments and Mr. Skirving's case, and no date is given in
Orowther's case. On pages 126 and 128 are very fair cases not open to
objections. On page 129 is a case to which remoteness applies, but
this is fairly cured by an entry at the time by the narrator, who says
he can produce his diary. Subject to the inspection of the diary hy the
Committee, showing the incident is entered properly, and also subject
to proofs of the intelligence having arrived subsequently to the entry,
being forthcoming (say by a certificate of death or American news-
paper notice thereof), this may be considered a good case, and it is re-
markable that it is almost the only one where any trouble was taken to
make a contemporaneous record. On page 130, the case on the
face of it seems a good one, but the best witness who had all the
opportunity of personal intercourse with the Oount Giunasi doubts the
mesmeric or clairvoyant power, and I think if the Oommittee call
evidence, and their own witness discredits them, that the case is con-
siderably weakened. On page 132 the objection to remoteness of date
obtains. In the next case (Mr. Oastle's case) the same objection obtains,
a.nd here unfortunately there was no record kept, and all persons whose
evidence would be valuable are dead. On page 133 Mrs. Davy should
have not only asked her husband the time, but have told him the reason
for asking; this then would have been noted down, and the evidence
rendered more valuable. Proof of the death of Mr. O. on that date
should be supplied. In Mr. Keulemans' case it is not quite clear that the
Herr did not see the newspaper.
I next take the second report of the Haunted Houses Oommittee,
page 137,'l.nd notice in passing that the Oommittee themselves acknow-
ledge that they can get no present manifestations of abnormal occur-
rences. No houses are stated to have been examined by them per-
sonally. either in reference to manifestations which are recorded
by others to have taken place in the past or otherwise. Also a re-
mark is made that phantoms appear at very irregular times, but this is
open to the rejoinder that these manifestations were just as irregular in
the past as now, and yet there is plenty of testimony to the past, but
little to the present. This alleged irregularity is also in part practically
contradicted by an example quoted at length on pages 144 et seq.
Digitized by Google
Ma,..l88.'i.] Journal of Society for P8gchical RelJeal'ch. . 405.
I now analyse the story on pa.ge 141. In the first place, the
same objection as to remoteness of date occurs, and for the first.
time I find evidence of what the Committee consider "a recent
occurrence," and find that something happening eleven years ago is
classed as such. I rather differ in this estimate, for I think that
eleven years is a long time for the memory to tax itself with
recalling small details, and it is the recollection of small details that
generally give the story a value. The story on page 141 is remark-
able; but the particulars of the murder mentioned on page 143 are
wanted in order to identify the alleged apparition with some actor
or victim in the mur:ler. The d&.te of the murder should be obtained
in order to ascertain if the style of dress of the apparition corresponded
with the style of dress at the date of the murder, but this evidence·
being wanting does not detract from the statement that a "wom!l.n" was
seen. Passing over the evidence of the brother,which seems to confirm
the sec'lnd appearance, I dismiss the child's statement as worthless, as
it is quite possible that the talk of the family and servants may haye
influenced his imagination. The other informants are very circum-
stantial, so much so that it is only fair to assume that these matters
were recorded at the time. The next story on page 144 I cannot say
leaves so favourable an impression on me as the one just criticised.In the
first place the narrator is dead and cannot be examined on his state-
ment. His widow having had this statement in writing for some time
is unconsciously, to a great extent, influenced by it. It is open to the
o~jection of remoteness of date, as the document is undated and relates
to matters supposed to have occurred 18 years prior to the time when it
was written. There is one very remarkable point as to the statemen:i
about the countrywoman on page 145. The narrator need not have
troubled himself to have called her" honest," as his readers would else
not have suspected otherwise, but he attempts twice in two lines to
predispose in favour of her honesty. When such trouble is taken
unnecessarily to stamp a character with "honesty" I must say that
I should begin to suspect, especially as her subsequent behaviour
and her reticence on the matter are not encouraging. Would
not the theory be tenable that this "honest countrywoman" was,
to use !Io common phrase, "on the prowl" by night, and upset
some of the not yet arranged furniture or the fire-irons, anq
hurried back to bad to escape detection 1 Her confused manner
the next day lends a strong colour to the suspicion that she knew
more about the matter than she chose to tell. Was not it her
suggestion in the first place which connected the noise with the past 1
and was that suggestion made bonafide, or to throw the inquirer off the
scent 1 Also this class of noise never occurred when the master and
mistress were alone in the house by night, and with the.exception of
Digitized by Google
406 Journal of Societg for PB!/claieal BuetWCla. [Kay.l885.
BOme noises like footsteps, but which may htt.ve been the regular creak.
creak of a rat's tooth (singularly like the creak of a boot. especially
where there is an echo), there is no noise or BOund until after the
arrival of the new servant. who had every opportunity of being
instructed by the "honest countrywoman" as to the supernatural
reputation of the premises, although the narrator [blindly] states that
she had no acquaintances m the village. Thencame the next manifesta-
tion, which it may be reasonably suggested was referable to the literal
fact that the boxes in the lumber room were insecurely piled up. Of
course they were quite still when examined, but probably the narrator
had no knowledge of the actual positions they were in when last
left. and there seems to have been a large number of things piled
up in the room. Then came mora manifestations, and this
time in the more orthodox manner of knockings. The narra-
tor then chaffs or speaks loud, and with the remarkable
result that the knockings become more hurried. This is what would
probably happen in the case of rats being disturbed by a human voi~e
and hurrying off. Then on page 148 the new servant seems to have
been inoculated with ideas of nocturnal noises, but for some unaecount-
able reason her testimony is not taken. This omission detracts from
the value of the story, as a rigid cross-examination ofthis servant might
have brought out the truth. Then on page 149 comes a young lady
visitor, a near relative of the wife, who was not to be told anything. I
rather doubt the probability of the secret being kept from the near
relative, because if ladies won't tell they will hint and waru, and if only
/,ints were thrown out, it may account for the lady (who was not
prejudiced iIi. favour of any particular noise) hearing what nobody
else in the house had ever heard. The lady speaks to the footsteps in
the passage, and then comes the grand Sabbath coincidence in which
she also hears a great crash, and fixes the time at 2 o'clock. It would
be interesting and more satisfactory to get the lady's own account of
this, as the evidence is merely hearsay, and may have been led up to by
suggesting questions. As to the boy's evidence it is second-hand, and
bears such evident marks of embellishment as to be utterly untrust-
worthy. The next evidence of the good old Christian lady is also second-
hand, and the narrator tries to creat-e a prejudice in her favour by
continuous testimony to her good qualities, and by his own assertions as
to belief in her truthfulness. In summing up the narrator's experiences
I may say that the record was written afterwards from recollection, as
appears from the last sentence. There was no record made from time
to time as these things occurred, or evidence of it would be ·produced.
The whole narrative is " written up" with sensational remarks, and the
most tri1ling matters are highly I'mbellished. It is not a plain statement
of facts, but tl.rguments and explanations are suggested· and extraneous
Digitized by Google
:May. 1885.] Journal qf Sariet!! for Ps!!ckical Researck. 407
matters inserted. It bears evidence of studied effect and resembles an
article intended for publication in a magazine. No evidence is forth-
ooming of any other persons having had like experiences, although as the
.house was occupied at least 12 months there must have been ample
opportunity for corroboration. Nor is corroboration forthcoming by
recent inquiries in the neighbourhood; the Committee must know the
place referred to, and c;ould make an investigation on the spot.
In writing these remarks I must not be considered in any way to
throw the slightest doubt on the good faith and honesty of the various
narrators, but I simply wish to record my protest against stories being
admitted as e"idence to support important theories, which rest mainly
upon second-hand statements, or which are dateless, or too remote in
date for proper inquiry, and without sufficient pains being taken to
verify facts stated in the narratives. For instance, a narrative states
that John Smith died at Manchester from an accident on a certain
day. This can easily be verified at a cost of 3s. 6d. by a copy from the
register of deaths, or by writing a polite letter to the coroner. Iwould
also earnestly suggest that no story more than five years old be printed
or cited in evidence, except the statements in the story were proyed
to have been written down at the time of OCCU1TenCe ; and in the case of
a short date story it should not be cited and printed unless an oppor-
tunity has been given for some competent officers of the Society to
examine witnesses and documents. Such examination should be by
strangers to the parties, and great care should be taken to avoid leading
and suggestion.
WM. DAVIES,
Bellfield, Kingsbridge, Devon,
Associate of the Society for Psychical Research.
REPLY TO MR. DAVIES' CRITICISMS.
On 'behalf of the Literary Committee, I am instructed to say here
that we cordially thank Mr. Davies, in the first place for the care
which he has taken in studying and criticising our work, and in
the second place for permitting his letter to appear in the Society's
.lu/J/T'lwl.
His criticism is just of the kind which we desire to elicit,-a detailed
exposition of points of evidence which appear to him defective in our
,narratives as they have thus far been given to the world. Before
proceeding to an equally detailed reply, in the preparation of which we
have had the advantage of the kind assistance of Mrs. Sidgwick, who
has kept in memory the various pieces of evidence which have accrued
Digitized by Google
408 Journal of Society for P81Jchical Be8em·cl,. (May, 1881)..
since the publication of the cases,-I may brieHy state the general way
in which we wish to meet Mr. Davies' criticisms.
As regards the really important question,-what constitutes the
evidence which should be aimed at in the presentation of cases like
these to the world,-there is really no difference between our own
views and those of our critic. It will be seen again and again in our
detailed reply that we have, in fact, in many cases, attained,-in others
have tried in vain to attain,-precisely the pieces of information which
he desiderates.
At the sll.Jlle time we are quite willing to admit that we have not
refrained from publishing cases evidentially imperfect as tried by the
standard which we shall agree with lIr. Davies in applying; and we
will frankly confess that this is partly due to the fact that in thecourse
of our investigation reHection and experience have led us to be some-
what more exacting in our view of the kind and degree of attestation
required, in order that a narrative may have any considerable evidential
importance. Partly, however, we were led to the publication of cases
which we admit to be, in some respects, open to attack, by a considera-
tion which we still think important-namely, by a desire to lay before
the readers a completely illustrated and systematic classification of
the phantasms of the living, arranged under the heads that appeared
to us to be suitable to the somewhat novel view that we had formed
of them.
The judgment of the public on the total value of the mass of
evidence cannot, of course, be,formed until after the appearance of our
book on "Phantasms of the Living," which we hope to bring out
this year-after a period of preparation which, though long in
comparison with our original programme, is certainly not long in
comparison with the length of preparation which books so laborious
generally need.
In the Second Report of the Literary Committee (Proc., Part V.,
January, 1884), it was calculated that over 10,000 letters had been
written during 1883 in the course of the collection and verification of
evidence. The number written during 1884 was somewhat less, but
not very much less; and although now the work of arranging and
commenting is occupying a larger proportion of time, from 15 to 20
letters per diem are still going forth in quest of just such " further and
better particulars" as Mr. Davies demands. And in this respect Mr.
Davies' letter 'Yill decidedly strengthen our hands. It will enable us
to impress on some well-disposed but tardy correspondent (say when we
are writing for the fifth time to ask for a date which he could find for
us in 10 minutes) that it is not a mere fancy of our own to wish to know
in what year something happened which he merely localises in bygone
time by saying, "when I was a gay young man;" but that the
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] - Journal of Society/0" P8ychical Research. 409
narrative is exposed to serious criticism for want of just this kind of
fact, which our correspondents must manage to find out for us them-
selves, since it is not to be discovered in the Annual Register.
However, we have no desire to find fault with our correspondents,
and in fact my next remark must be that some of them are very much
more to be depended upon than the published narrative gives us any
opportunity of showing. I am thinking specially of Mr. Roberts, the
shopman who was seen when absent at dinner by Mr. and Mrs. Owen.
and Mrs. J ones--a. case where Mr. Davies naturally desires that the
evidence of some of these persons, or of Mr. Roberts' aunt, who was
cognisant of the occurrence at the time, should be obtained.
Mr. Roberts cannot get this testimony. B is aunt (who is very old)
thinks it impious so much as to discuss o.ny occurrence so plainly with·
drawn from mere human knowledge; Mr. and Mrs. Owen are unen-
'lightened, unfriendly, and uuapproachable; and Mrs. Jones is no longer
traceable among her homonyms throughout the Principality. But Mr.
Rooorts himself is a witness whom'I would gladly' make an effort to
enable Mr. Davies to meet. I spent several hours of the afternoon of
December 27th, 1882, in talking to him, he having consented to devote
a day of his brief Christmas holiday to a long journey in order to meet
me at the Worcester station. He made, in fact, a. pure gift to the·
Society of a good many hours of writing, talk, and travel, with no
personal motive whatever, simply because his mihd had been strongly
impressed by an inexplicable incident in his own experience, and he had
the 'good-nature to think that we should be glad to know of it. At the
end of our talk I felt no doubt that. his recollection of the facts that he
narrated was substantially accurate, and that his narration was in
precise accordance with his recollection. Under these circumstances I
did not think it right to let his narrative drop altogether for lack of
corroboration; though I should, of course, have been glad if other
persons could have shared my personal impression of Mr. Roberts'
evidence. And in this respect the case is a thoroughly typical
one. For the small group of us who are actively engaged in this.
task of collecting evidence, constantly feel the need of more help-
the need to increase our numbers and divide our responsibility.
From time to time we have appealed to our Members to give more
active help, and help of considerable value has been afforded to
us. But much more is needed still, and we would again appeal to our
Members and Associates (many of whom have joined us since our last.
appeal was made) to collect cases for us from their friends and
o.cquaintances, or to offer help (to Mr. Podmore especially) in con-
ducting the correspondence which weighs somewhat too heavily upon
all of us.
F. W. H. MYERS,
Digitized by Google
410 Journal 01 SOCiet;l/ for Psychical Reseat·ch. [May, 1885.
We will now deal, in detail, with some of Mr. Davies' objections
to particular narratives, and omitting those which are met by the
general reply already given, we will take first the cases of phantasms
()f the living, and then the haunted houses.
Proceedings V01. l., p. 30.-General Richardson's corroboration has
. now been obtailled.
Page 31.-Mr. T. W. Smith left the address given some years ago, but
we are endeavouring to trace him, in order to make further inquiries.
Page 121, No. lV.-The evidence in this case is undoubtedly weak.
It is, however, second-hand, not third, as regards the important part,
namely, the apparition; though, as must be admitted, from a child of
five years old. And here we may remark that as regards narratives
which from age or want of corroboration must always remain com-
paratively weak, we do not think them so entirely without value
as Mr. Davies seems to do. By themselves they could not afford
satisfactory evidence for veridical phantasms, since the inference
would be inevitable that if these things were true there would
be at least some recent cases and some cases carefully noted at the
time. But combined with such recent and carefully observed cases,
we think the less well-evidenced ones give a cumulative force to
the argument, and meet the objection that such phenomena,if genuine,
would probably not be very rare. This would not, of course, be
60 if the errors liable to occur were of a constant kind, so that if
()ne case were plausibly explained away, all the others would be so too.
But we do not think that the errors introduced by mal-observation,
'&c., 'tre of this kind. We do not t.hink it so likely that 20 people should
have made a mistake as to dates as that one should, or that 20 people
should mistake arrangements of clothes for a human figure, and
afterwards feel sure that it exactly resembled their friend as that one
I'hould.
Page 122.-Commander Aylesbury has now obtained his ·sister's
account of what occurred at his house, and this is no doubt the most
important part of the evidence, as it testifies to a collective auditory
hallucination. We do not think that much importance can be attached
to the drowning boy's vision of his home, as the scene pictured was
probably a familiar one. The exact hour of the accident, and of the
hearing of the voice, are not now remembered, but their coincidence
seems to have been looked into at the time.
Page 124, No. VII., Captain Colt's story.-We cannot agree with
Mr. Davies that there is not here good evidence, that the account of
the apparition was given before the news of the storming of the Redan
was received. Probably Mrs. Hope's date is not an independent one,
but founded on the knowledge of the date of her brother Oliver's death;
but she. can hardly be mistaken as to having heard of the vision before
Digitized by Coog
May. 1885.} Journal of Societ1l/or P811chical Research. .411
"the news came, which is the important point in her evidence. Again,
some reason must have been given by Captain Colt for the unusual
proceeding of leaving his room snd sleeping on a sofa. in a friend's
room-and his memory can hardly have played him false as to this
fact. Perhaps, however, the strongest confirmation is afforded by a
detail which has been learnt since the story was printed. Captain Colt
"tells the Committee that when the news of the storming of the Redan
arrived, he with a large party were just starting in the drag on an ex-
pedition. He was sitting on the box next his father, who remarked
that it was well that he (the father) had told him to say nothing about
the vision to his mother, and that he hoped he would forbid its being
mentioned by anyone to whom he had told it, as it might doubly alarm
her now, since this news. This, again, seems to us to be a. point on
which his memory can hardly have deceived him.
Page 128, No. XI.-We agree with Mr. Davies that this may
have been a dream of no extraordinary kind which impressed the
(lhild's imagination afterwards, only because of the death. It is one
ef those cases which do not seem to us to be of much value in proving
the existence of veridical phantasms of dying person!!, but which if
they exist are probably cases of them. At the same time it must be
observed that the children were not extremely young, and that Miss
Sarah Jardine's recollection that she had awakened her sister, and told
her their grandmother was in the room, suggests that some impression
was made before the death was known.
Page 130, No. XIV.-Owing to the youth of the first-hand witness
the second-hand evidence in this story is, perhaps, of more value than
the first. Probably Mr. Colchester is not speaking from his own know-
ledge when he says "the same evening," but from his recollection of
'what he was told. Very likely his own experiences may dwell in his
memory more from having been afterwards narrated to him than from
actual first-hand recollection. But why should it have been told to him
if nothing of the kind occurred 1
Page 131, Nos. XVI. and XVII.-Mr. Berthon has been asked for
further evidence as to his narrative, and a firsf;..hand account of Miss
Peard's case has been received.
Page 132, No. XVIII.-Inquiries made as to this narrative have
hitherto remained unanswered, and it is doubtless weak as it stands.
But we hardly think Mr. Davies' explanation a plausible one, foJ;' if it
were really the two young gentlemen whom Miss Eyre saw entering the
avenue gate, what became of them afterwards 7 Why did they not
(lome to the house 1 It seems more likely that it was a case of mistaken
identity. Miss Eyre was apparently looking out for her friends, and
sceing three persons enter the gate may have concluded too hastily that
they were the friends expected. It must be remembered in cases like.
Digitized by Google
412 Journal 01 Societyfor P81/chical Be8earch. [Ma1,1885.
these that we cannot compel evidence, but are obliged to depend entirely
on the kindness and courtesy of our informants.
Page 133.-Further inquiries are being made about Bishop
Wilberforce's experience also. There is no reason to suppose from the
narrative, as we have it, that the note was made in the Bishop's diary
or that it has been preserved.
Page 133, No. XIX.-Mrs. Gates has been urged to keep a diary,
but we think Mr. Davies has overlooked, in thd case of the particular
experience here recorded, that she told her daughter of her feeling
at the time, before the letter from her son came, and that her daughter
has confirmed the fact.
Page 134.-Mr. Fryer has been asked for his brother's testimony
in this case.
Page 135, No. XXIV.-This case has been discussed in our prefatory
remarks. (p. 409.)
Page 131, No. XXV.-This case seems to us weaker than it does to
Mr. Davies, because watering of the eyes on looking upward is not a.
rare phenomenon. Still, the coincidence is curious and worth noting.
Page 131, XXVI.-Technically this narrative is not even second-
hand; but it is actually evidenced in a way which leaves hardly a.
possible doubt as to the main fact reported; for Dr. Goodall Jones
was made aware of the vision within a few minutes of its occurrence,
and saw the percipient while she was still under the influence of the
impression; and his evidence is probably better than that of his
patient would be. An independent account of the death of the pilot
is being inquired for.
Page 139, No. XXVIII.-There is an apparent discrepancy as to
dates in this narrative, which will, we hope, be cleared up; but it is, a.s
Mr. Davies says, a fair one.
Page 141, No. XXIX.-This narrative will probably be dropped on
the ground that dreams of relatives at sea. must be assumed to be not un-
common. Moreover, the rcoincidence of time between accident and
dream is not clear. It must be observed, however, that the narrative
can hardly be regarded as altogether without weight. The loss of the
boat and the manner of it, are belie'\"ed to have been dreamt of, and
Mrs. Barnes' son seems to have had an auditory hallucination connected
with his father at the same time. Mr. Elrington vouches for the fact
that the occurrence was described hours before the news of the loss of
the boat came, an':l it is to be presumed that he examined Mrs. Strong
and other neighbours.
Page 142, No. XXXII.-Of course this narrative has never been
ranked above second-hand as regards the important point, but we fu)ly
agree with Mr. Davies' criticism on it, and do not intend to use it
in the book.
Digitized by Google
May, 1885.] Journal of Societvfor P81Jckical Resent·cli. 413
Part VI., p. 122.-Mr. Wilson took his degree in 1859. The
evidence for this incident, has, of course, most of the weaknesses pointed
out by Mr. Davies. Doubtless, could Mr. 'Wilson have known at the
time that his experience would some day be of value ill a scientific
inquiry, he would have taken care that more complete evidence should
be forthcoming.
Page 123.-Mr. C.'s sister-in-law resides in a remote part of the
"World, and there has been delay in obtaining her corroboration, but we
are still hoping to receive it. .
Page 129.-We cannot but think the internal evidence, confirming
Mr. Juke's belief that the phenomenon occurred before the news came,
"Very strong in this case. However, Mr. Jukes has promised to show us
his diary, and evidence is doubtless forthcoming of the entry in the
diary previous to the knowledge of the deaths.
Page 130.-We do not think that Count Guinasi's power was in this
<l8Se mesmeric or clairvoyant, but regard it simply as a case of thought-
transference. Mr. Browning's remark is, of course, given simply
because it may be thought by some, as it is by Mr. Davies, to weaken
the case. We do not ourselves think it does so to any material extent,
beea.use, with all respect to Mr. Browning, it seems to us improbable
that he can, unintentionally, have conveyed the idea "murder" hy
his face or eyes, in such a connection. We should even prefer to this
hypothesis that of a guess, right by pure accident.
Page 134.-We have hare to rely on Mr. Keulemans' conviction
that Herr Schell could not see the paper. His own evidence cannot
be obtained.
We now proceed to Mr. Davies' criticisms on the Reports of the
Haunted House Committee.
The first case,that of Mr. X.Z. (given ill VoL I. p. 107) is doubtless,
as Mr. Davies points out, 30 years old, and allowance must be made for
this in estimating its value. Perhaps the weakest point in the narrative,
nowever, (next to the fact pointed out ill the Report, that we have at
present the first-hand testimony of one witness only, a weakness which
"We are trying to remedy) lies in the length of tinIe, four years, between
the vision and the recognition of the porlrait. Four years is a long
time to keep clearly in mind a face seen only once, and at some little
distance, even under very impres~ive circumstances. Rut there is, of
(lourse, great difference of power in this respect between different
individuals.
As to the narrative (Vol. I. p. 108) of the repeated appearance of
the supposed ghost of Miss A., we entirely agree with Mr. Davies as to
the weakness of T.M.B.'s evidence. The same criticism on it is made
in the Report itself (p. 113), and Mrs. R. herself feels it (p. 110). We
also quite agree with Mr. Davies that expectancy is a con-
Digitized by Google
414 Journal qf Sockty jor PiycMcalBaearck. [Ma:r,l885.
dition that should always be taken account of in investi-
gating a ghost story, as it certainly does sometimes produce
illusions, and may produce hallucinations. At any rate we do not
know that it cannot, and there is a certain amount of evidence sug-
gesting that it sometimes does. But the possible operation of
expectancy was taken account of in the case under consideration, and.
the following remark made about it in the Report (p. 113) : ".As.
these witnesses in most cases affirm that they at first took UUJ object
Been to be a living person, their apparent visions cannot be referred to
any state of expectancy." We do not quite understand Mr. Davies'
remark about Susan Taylor. She was, doubtless, a sceptic, but scarcely
a common-sense one, as few would agree with her argument that what.
she saw could not have been a ghost because when she followed it.
into a room there was no one there. Nor do we agree with Mr. Davies
that anything would be likely to 1e gained in this particular case by
inquiries about the servants and their antecedents (though in many
cases this is of course important), because in this case the appearances
seemed to vanish in a way which, if correctly described, was impossible
to a human being, and can hardly have been due to trickery.
With regard to present manifestations we think Mr. Davies has
'somewhat misunderstood the Report. It is not stated that n()
information as to present manifestations of abnormal occurrences
reaches us, but that we have ourselves had no opportunities
of witnessing any. We do know of cases where there is n()
reason to think that the supposed haunting has ceased. We have
also examined some haunted houses (a report about 'one supposed
case appeared in the March number of the Journal). But generally
little infonnation is gained by examining the scene of past phE:nomena.
except a clearer idea (which is no doubt important) of the eX3ct meaning
of the narrative. As to the irregular times of the appearances, this
does not, of course, prevent their heing observed by those who reside
continuously in the house. But it would clearly be absurd to expect.
. much from a week's residence in a house where the ghost only appears
about twice in a dozen years, and then not at any fixed time which can
be foreseen and prepared for, especially as it is, at anyrate, uncertain
whether the faculty (if such there be) of seeing ghosts is not peculiar
to certain people.
It is true that we have a larger number of narratives of frequently
recurring sounds than of frequently recurring apparitions, but though
sounds certainly need investigating, it is perhaps not worth while to
incur a great deal ofadditional trouble or expense in investigating them,
since the result is li~ely to remain inconclusive. In a. brief stay in a
house it is not very probable that a. member of the Society for Psychical
Rel!earch would discover a cause of sound which had already been
Digitized by Google
May,l885.] Jourruzl of Society for P;ycleical Re8earch. 415
searched for by the inhabitants; and the mere fact that we have not
discovered a physical origin for them will not prove that they have a-
ce psychical" one.
Turning now to the narrative in Proceeding8 VI., p.141,our inquiries
respecting the murder which is said to have occurred in the house have
so far been unsuccessful. But even if there was a murder, it is impro-
bable that any clear identification will be possible between any person
concerned and the figure seen, since all we know of the figure is that it
was that of a woman in a particular attitude, mufRed up in a particular
way in clothes that might have belonged to almost any period. W&
fear that Mr. DaviE's is over sanguine in his assumption that any
written notes of the occurrences narrated were made at the time;.
cert<l.inly no hint of the existence of such notes was given to us. W&
hope for careful contemporary records of such phenomena in the future~
but do not find them often in the past.
With regard to the last narrative criticised by Mr. Davies-that in'
Proceedings VI., p. 144-we think he is too severe. The account was
written out, a.s he suggests, for a magazine, but as we have no reason
to suppose that facts bearing on the case have been intentionally in-
serted or omitted, we hardly think the mode of presenting them ought
to be allowed to prejudice us against them. The narrator's widow must
know whether itwas written as a statement of fact or as a made-up story,
and in the latter case would not, we presume, either corroborate it, or
allow her memory to be unconsciously influenced by it. Mr. Davies.
also seems to think that the fact that the story was written down-IS
years after the events, it is true, though nearer to the time of
their occurrence than we are now-weakens the evidence, and that
independent testimony now given by the lady would be more satisfac-
tory than the written testimony of her husband. Mr. Davies' point~
too, about the epithet "honest," applied to the countrywoman, and
other remarks about attempting to prejudice in favour of the witnesses,
seem to us to be a mere question of style. It had certainly not oc-
curred to us that the narrator meant to lay any particular stress on
the word "honest," 01' to imply more than that she was a respectable-
woman, whom he had no reason to suspect of trickery.
We certainly agree with Mr. Davies that if we could see a-
plausible explanation involving the countrywoman's complicity,.
we should be disposed to adopt it. But we cannot say we do..
We gave the story simply as an example of noises, and it is pretty
certain that the noises were heard,but such cases-where the phenomena
consist of noises only, without any sufficient evidence that they are
produced by an intelligent agent-can never be conclusive. No exami-
nation of witnesses could demonstrate that they were abnormal, and it
is highly improbable at this distance of time, that it could be shown
Digitized by Google
416 JOI,rnal Qf Society for Psychical Reseo1·ch. [May, 188.').
that they were normal. It may interest our readers to know that one
of us once passed a night (in 1873) in the house where these noises
occurred. He had not at the time heard the story, but neither his own
experience, nor anything he heard from his host, suggested the idea.
that any abnormal phenomena. were going on. But this, of course,
proves nothing-not even that the sounds have ceased-though it is
extrt>mely probable that they have done so, whether they were normal
or abnormal.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The JoUowing additionl hatle bem made ftnce last month..
PRINCETON REVIEW (The) four Nos. ...........................New York, 1885*
RJtLLENBACH(L.B.) Geburt und Tod ..,.............................. Vienna, 1885
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. Vols. I.--XI, and the current Nos. of Vol. XII.
Leipzig, 1874-85t
LEVEQUE (Charles) La Science de I'Invisible ........................Paris, 1865
RIBOT (Th.) Les Maladies de la Personnalite ........................Paris, 1885
SCHMIDT (Oscar) Les Sciences N80turelles et Is. Philosophie de
I'Inconscient ......................................................•••Paris, 1879
SICILIAN! (Pierre) ProMgomtmes a180 Psychogenie Moderne •..Paris, 1880
* Presented by Mr. J. M. Libbey. t Presented by the Hon. A. Aksakof.
NOTE-
We are asked to state, that on further investigation, the evidence for the
llaunting of a house near the Sussex coast, referred to in the Journal for
January, proves to be unsatisfactory.
This is not the haunted house about which a notice was inserted in the
JotwnaZ for April.
Digitized by Google
