{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_f_nde.html","mytitle":"James F NDE 118","mylang":"de"}
          	        James F NDE 118  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James F NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1480 James F NDE 118  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Shortly after eating a large dinner three days before Thanksgiving Day, 1996, I had experienced pains to my chest that was so sharp that it dropped me to my knees. After a few minutes, I felt better but had a numbing sensation in my left arm that would not go away. I just discounted the pain as just indigestion. However, the numbing sensation persisted the next day, causing me a great deal of concern. To make a long story short, I was taken to the hospital and I underwent a catheterization procedure the day after Thanksgiving. All was going fine, in fact, the doctor had nearly finished one half of the procedure when all of the sudden everything went gray.

I began to experience the most wonderful sensation that I had ever felt. I was floating through what seemed to be a red tunnel of some sort. At the end of the tunnel was a bright light that did not bother my eyes at all. The light gave me a sense of strength and joy that is indescribable. Once I arrived at the end of the tunnel, I saw a black table and seven people all dressed in white clothing standing on the other side of the table. Six to my right and one to my left. I did not recognize any of the people standing before me. However, I do remember the table. The table top was made of gold and the table legs were thin, tall and square. On top of the table was a book in front of the person that was directly to my left. I remember wanting to go further towards the light. I had no other thoughts other than wanting to go on towards the light. I know one or two of the people behind the table had said something to me but I cannot remember what.

But then, almost as quickly as everything had gone to gray I was brought back. The doctor had brought my heart back to normal by using defibrillator paddles on me. If it had not been for that, I am sure that I would have been in the hands of God that day. My father had always told me that when it is your time that there would be nothing that I could do about it. It was not my time to go and I am not afraid now if today were the day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 26, 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    cardiac catheterization procedure  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Heart fibrillation

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I do not remember seeing any physical part of my body during the experience. I did not notice my arms or my nose before my face.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I know one or two of the people (women) behind the table said something to me but cannot recall what.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A red tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See text above.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright, gave me a sense of wellbeing, warmth, did not bother my eyes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See text above.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joyfulness, happiness, wellness.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My wife claims that I have calmed down about many things that used to bother me before the experience.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bright light and coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Pastor of church I was attending, fellowship group at church, family, co-workers.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_f_nde.html