{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"James D Probable NDE 7768","mylang":"de"}
          	        James D Probable NDE 7768  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4011 James D Probable NDE 7768  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I suddenly became aware that I was outside of my body and looking down at it from the ceiling. I felt panic and tried to return to my body, but to no avail. I then noticed a blackness surrounding me with a light in the distance. As the light got closer the panic was replaced by love times-a-thousand. I communicated with whatever it was through thought. No words were spoken but I understood perfectly. I was informed that it wasn't my time. I felt like I was caught trying to cut class.  It was like I was trying to get away with something, yet the Being had so much love and understanding like a parent has for a child.  I pleaded not to return but the presence in the light reached out and guided me back into my body. As soon as I was back in my body, I cried and was angry that I couldn't stay. 

Before this occurrence, I was experiencing kidney failure and had accepted death. After the experience, I showed no signs of ever having any kidney problems and my doctor had no explanation for my recovery. I am rather reluctant to be here on earth, but it wasn't my time apparently. The experience has left me with a heightened awareness I did not have prior.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Kidney failure

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of everything

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When near the light

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No concept of time passing

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Unrestricted

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear but it was more like a thought in my head

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was darkness and then light

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light that contained something

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Nothingness then light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Panic, love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Makes me realize we are all connected and we are all cared for and loved

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     Felt shame

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Nothing I can remember but it was part of the reason I had to come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Not practicing

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I make sure I treat everyone, as I would want to be treated.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Spiritual

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Darkness and alone then in the light of love was what I experienced. At that time in my life I would have expected to see deceased relatives and had a life review.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Told me it wasn't my time

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Not sure what I was talking to

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I can still feel it to this day. As if I'm having two conversations with people. One is a non verbal communication and sometimes has nothing to do with the verbal communication.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It is more of a flowing energy that goes through us all

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I think we are here for the experience

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     When I was in the light I understood everything.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Everyone plays a role and we are all equally loved

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They will keep presenting themselves till we get it right

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It's appearantly everything

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I now value everyone, even the people who do harm. Everyone has a part to play.     I now value everyone, even the people who do harm. Everyone has a part to play.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More understanding and tolerance  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not sure of the emotion I felt in the light except it is still is fresh after 20 years and everything has paled in comparison

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I'm more spiritual and understanding. I use to feel loneliness but that's gone now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        We're here until we do what were supposed to do.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years after. I hear others talking now about how life ends at death but don't feel compelled to speak up, I figure that they will find out, eventually. I also don't want to change the path on which they are. The ones I have told I can't explain why I did but it did seem to fill a need within them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Real, but didn't know what to make of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than anything I had experienced before and since then. It was truth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I did find myself outside of my body again a few weeks after the experience but no light and as soon as I became aware, I was right back in my body.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_d_probable_nde.html