{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"James C Probable NDE 4809","mylang":"de"}
          	        James C Probable NDE 4809  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2441 James C Probable NDE 4809  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The accident happened so fast that it took a while for me to realize what had happened. I remember looking at my arm and seeing blood pumping out of the artery with such force that it splashed against the wall of the bathroom that was approximately eight feet away. It was then that I realized that I was probably going to die. I screamed out to my wife in the other room that I was going to die. I put my left hand into the wound and tried to stop the blood, but quickly I slumped down and my arm fell against my body. The doctor told me later that I might have saved my life by applying pressure to the artery. I have vague memories of the firemen ripping out the glass doorframe in order to gain access to me. I lost consciousness after that, but drifted back into semi-consciousness briefly as they loaded me into the ambulance. I remember thinking that I was going to die, since I knew how much blood I had lost.

The lasting impression that I have is the feeling that I experienced when I saw the light. The feeling was that all would be okay. Up until I saw the light, I was in great turmoil because I knew I was going to die, and I did not want to die. Seeing the light somehow gave me great comfort. The light came into my view gradually, and the brighter it became, the more I lost my fear of dying. The light at first appeared to be far off in the distance. I remember looking at it with curiosity. It seemed to get brighter and closer to me, but I do not think there was a tunnel. By the time the light became so close that I felt it was becoming a part of me, I was no longer afraid. Just when my fear was gone, the light faded and I started to become aware of being in the hospital. The doctors told me that I had been resuscitated in the Recovery Room.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/19/1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I fell through a glass shower door on the morning of 3/19/73 while getting ready to go to work. The door was not made of safety glass, therefore the glass shattered and I came down on a sharp shard of glass, which completely severed my brachial artery, the brachial vein and all tributary veins in the upper arm. There was also complete division of the ulna nerve, radial nerve and median nerve.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was most aware when the light was at its brightest. This did not seem to last very long, however, since just as the light started to engulf me, I suddenly returned to 'normal' existence. I assume that my return was the result of being resuscitated.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not see anything except the light. It appeared at first as a point of bright white light off in the distance, much like a bright star in the sky at night. It grew closer and took on a yellowish hue.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The light was the dominant feature of my experience. As I said, it began as a point of bright white light in the distance and grew closer and more yellowish. As it grew closer I felt that it was becoming a part of me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       My emotions at first were of great fear. I had seen the blood spurting from my artery and knew I could not survive after losing that much blood. The appearance of the light was such a calming influence. My emotions went from wild fear of death to feeling that all would be okay.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic upbringing

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     An afterlife was something I didn't think about prior to my experience, although I was raised in the Roman Catholic Church and attended Mass regularly as a child and as a teenager. Now that I am older and have read about NDEs I know that there is a scientific basis for believing in an afterlife as well as a religious basis.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Do not attend church regularly, but am a spiritual person who believes in God and an afterlife.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     An afterlife was something I didn't think about prior to my experience, although I was raised in the Roman Catholic Church and attended Mass regularly as a child and as a teenager. Now that I am older and have read about NDEs I know that there is a scientific basis for believing in an afterlife as well as a religious basis.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience seemed very personal - I did not know if it was something that I was supposed to talk about.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt that death was not to be feared after my experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some years after I did tell my wife about the light. I subsequently divorced my wife and remarried. I also told my current wife after we had been married a few years. In both cases, it was hard to tell what their reactions were. Neither one expressed any great interest. It may be that my experience was only one of seeing the light without any other aspects, and they may not have thought it was that significant. It is hard for me to explain the feeling that the light brought to someone who did not experience it themselves.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that something real had happened, but could not talk about it until years had passed. Although I knew it really happened; I didn't know what it was that I experienced.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     With all the publicity now about NDEs, I know now that what I experienced was a NDE.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_c_probable_nde.html