{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_c_nde_4460.html","mytitle":"James C NDE 4460","mylang":"de"}
          	        James C NDE 4460  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2237 James C NDE 4460  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					To describe my experience in full would take hundreds of pages, therefore I am only going to outline it. In the late summer of 1947, I contracted a fatal illness that resulted in my death approximately eleven hours later.

When I came out of my body, I watched and heard the doctor and nurses as they declared me dead. At that time, an Angel approached me and I asked him what was happening. He told me that I had died and that as soon as the other Angel arrived we would go to Paradise. We spent several minutes there and watched as the doctor talked with my parents. When the other Angel arrived, we departed through the wall traveling through what most describe as a tunnel until we reached the gates of Paradise.

Arriving there I first saw someone that looked a little like me.  When I asked who this person was, I was told it was my brother. At that time, I never knew I had a brother that had died. Soon, we were joined by two other people who were introduced as another brother and sister, a set of twins that had also died. I met and saw many of my bloodline down through the ages.

When I was told why we were waiting, I demanded to see Jesus. Jesus asked me to return to my body because my family needed me. I argued a while but Jesus promised me an additional ten years to my life and that he would watch over me all the years of my life if I would return. Still objecting he instructed that I be shown what would happen if I did not return. When I saw the vision of my father being taken to jail and my mother in a casket I was devastated. Then Jesus allowed me to be shown the future of the world: Wars, strife, no rain, death, earthquakes, etc.

Upon returning to my body, which was a unique experience itself, I was instructed by the Angels to sleep.  When I awoke, I would be free of the illness, except that I may not remember some things about my early life. At the moment, that did not sink in until I could not even recognize my parents and siblings when they came to visit me in the hospital.

The hospital staff began called me 'Miracle Boy'. The local newspapers picked up the story and when I was discharged from the hospital, there were several photographers and other people to greet me and wish me well. They also gave me some flowers.

I soon learned that telling this story was not the thing to do because, in those days and in that community, people did terrible things to you and thought you were crazy or a devil. So, after several encounters at school my parents moved us from the mountain to where no one knew us and I was instructed by my parents never to speak of the event again. I told no one of the event and was shocked twenty years later when I married that my sister told my wife about the experience, which caused a little problem. I told my wife that my sister is a little strange and dismissed what she told my wife.

I have had five heart attacks and survived two terminal cancers. My additional ten years will be up soon. When the doctors told my wife and I that I would live less than six months my wife then told my daughters about what my sister had told her and my daughter pumped me to tell her the whole story. Her I cannot resist, so about ten years ago I told my daughter and, well, let's say the jury is still out on her opinion.

When I tell my wife about events that will occur, she is astounded that I have never been wrong. I can't tell her too much because she will be frightened and it will have a very bad effect on her. What would happen if I told, and everyone believed the events to come. It has been hard enough living as long as I have knowing the terrible things that my wife and children will endure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1947

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A life threatening event took my life, if that is what you are asking.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   At all times.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     What many call a tunnel is not a tunnel at all. Yes, there is a corridor that feels like a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met Angels, my dead siblings, grandparents, ancestors, Jesus and communicated with as many as possible. The encounter lasted for some time.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A total absence of evil.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned about my dead siblings and ancestors.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was shown a vision of my future wife, who at the time would have been only four months old, the events leading up to the destruction of our world, a vision of what would happen to my family if I did not return. So far everything has been totally accurate even including the current political condition of the worlds and of our President.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was not a sense; I actually saw the wife I would have and events leading up to the almost total destruction of the world as we know it today.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes For over sixty years I have had to lead a double life, hiding what I know.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can recognize demons when I see them on the street and evil people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all significant and meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience immediately after awakening in the hospital but shut it up for over fifty years because of the strife I was subjected to.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was eight years old. Other than knowing that it was real I did not dwell on the realities of it all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The visions that I were shown have been occurring with total accuracy.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_c_nde_4460.html