{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_b_smr.html","mytitle":"James B SMR 759","mylang":"de"}
          	        James B SMR 759  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James B SMR  					  					  						Home  						Classification SMR  						262  James B SMR  759  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was having a hard time in life. I had dreamed of going to Queens University in Belfast to study computer. I got a letter from them telling me that I had failed to achieve entry as I didn't meet their requirements. I was so mad at that. I ran to my room and locked myself inside, not letting my mother nor my father get in. I was crying beyond control when suddenly there was this beautiful light forming in front of me. It went from color to color, and inside this light, I could make out the shadow of a being. Suddenly, I found myself standing next to this light. I looked back and my body was lying on the bed crying still. I thought WOW! How the hell?


Suddenly, from within this being, a huge tunnel had opened up and it was beautiful beyond words. I cannot tell you what I felt. The feeling of love, and peace that I had achieved while I was passing through this was amazing! I felt myself engulfed in the passion of love that seemed to flow from every corner of this tunnel and from this being!


We reached what I can only call 'The White Room'. This room didn't seem to have any ending to it! It was filled with book after book. Big Red Books! Before us appeared a table and on the table was one of those book. The 'Person' beside of me started to speak and it was like music to my mind. The Being never once spoke using his mind, only putting his words into my head. (Cool I thought).


The thought I got was that he was going to tell me my life and what lay ahead of me. He opened the book. It was not a normal book.  The thing showed me television pictures of my life, from Birth to present day. Much of which I had forgot!  The being looked at me with so much love I felt like I wanted to cry.


The thought came to my mind telling me that we are all inter-connected; we are all as one, part of the one great big plan. We are all linked spiritually! WOW! I thought. Then he told me that I had to go back because there was people who needed me. He told me to wait for little Pebbels, that he had given her to me before we walked this Earth. That we were placed on this earth on the same day. He told me that she was my soul-mate and would be along soon. He also told me to wait a few day and I would receive a letter in the post from the people that had made me hurt so much.


Suddenly, I found myself back inside the tunnel. I didn't want to go, I felt so safe. There was no form of time there. Just pure love.


12 days after this experience, I got a letter from Queens telling me that they had made a mistake and that they would be privileged to have me as a Student. Then, three days into university, I meet a girl. Guess what, she told me her mother had always called her Pebbels right to this very day. She had told me her mother always said that God had given her that nickname so that the right person could ID her. WOW! I felt so lucky and blessed. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    01/24/1997

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     General Life problems  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was still myself. I looked as I did on earth. However, I got the feeling that I could change my appearance at will. As though I could take on a different form if I had felt like it. I also felt that I could move anywhere I wanted to at great speed.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Full Consciousness. I mean Fully Conscious. That is what made it even more amazing. When I came through the tunnel, I looked at my body and felt so much pity for it. It was still.  I sat there looking lifeless but still crying.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I swear to you, time did not exist as we know it. Time there is no issue, they have no such thing as time. We here on Earth do everything by time, whereas they do everything by love.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There was like music playing in the background. It sounded like the Irish harp. It was so relaxing and welcoming.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a light with the most beautiful looking being inside of it.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This big hall as I put it was definitely in another dimension. It was amazing. That tunnel took me there in seconds and returned me even quicker. Ha, lets here the science people explain that one with their tools and their tax books.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Yes definitely. So far as I am concerned, they had shared the biggest secret of them all with me that being we are all part of one great big universal plan. That we need to stop believing that we are the be all and the end all, that there is other forms of life that live just as we do. They are all linked in with the spirit.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned how to love without condition. I learned that we are all inter-linked and that no matter what we may feel, we are loved from beyond.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I started to believe in myself. I knew then that the religions that we have here on earth are false. I found that we are placed here by god to learn and not to pray to him 24/7 as they would have you believe. I feel as though I was given the knowledge that we are are own God, that is God's great gift to us.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I was in awe of what had happened. Things like that don't happen. You don't get contact from these beings. You know, how do you tell people that you were taken away to a faraway place by an Angel?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can feel when other spirits that have passed on are present. I can also predict a lot of upcoming events. I will tell you now for a fact that in this current war on Iraq, Saddam will not be caught and he will unleash a chemical weapon in about 3 weeks time.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The whole thing was beautiful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only Pebbels. She was sure it happened. When I told her about it, that is when I found out that her mother had always called her Pebbels and that she had always said that god gave her that name so someone could identify her.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes. Don't be afraid to LOVE each other.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None really. Well laid out mate, good work.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_b_smr.html