{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"James B Probable NDE 9724","mylang":"de"}
          	        James B Probable NDE 9724  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5249 James B Probable NDE 9724  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    After a day of passing blood, I went to the hospital emergency department. While in the waiting area, I began to feel faint. So, I went to the reception  desk. There, I passed out. I awoke on a gurney while being wheeled into a room. I had been unconscious for less than 2 minutes. 

  During the time I was unconscious,  I awoke to see everything was bathed in a light.  I can't quite describe this. I was fully aware of my surroundings and my situation. I was as happy as I have ever been. I had no fear or anxiety whatsoever. I seemed to be finishing a telepathic conversation with someone who I was sure loved me totally, and whom I loved. 

  It was suggested to me later, that this might have been my daughter who was murdered less than 2 months before. This seems possible to me, but that is not what I was thinking at the time of my experience. 

  I remember  saying that I would love to die right now, but my wife and son are both dependent on me for care and would suffer if I died now. The other person assured me that this was not my time and I would return to caring for them for a long time. I felt like this was the end of a much longer conversation but I couldn't  remember what else we talked about. The light persisted for a minute or two, but the profound happiness lasted for an hour or more. 
  
  The experience was vivid and seemed very real. From that time, I have been convinced that my personality will survive bodily death. Before that I believed that consciousness would persist but not my individual personality. I no longer have any reservations about death and actually look forward to it. 
  
  I was not near-death since my blood pressure and oxygen level were very low but never critical. I did pass out, but calling it near-death would be an exaggeration. I could have died if the bleeding had persisted but it resolved by itself. I was admitted to the ICU and given intravenous fluid under pressure and drugs to bring up my blood pressure  from the loss of blood. But as far as I know, I was never actually close to death. I saw no tunnel, no visual contact with any entity, no life review, no memory of a heavenly realm and no OBE. But my experience has some of the elements of an NDE.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/26/22  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was experiencing a serious intestinal hemorrhage  and lost consciousness in the emergency waiting room.    
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was awake and saw and heard my surroundings in a normal way except for the light.  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was aware of and in communication with a non-physical person. Everything was bathed in an unusual light. I was incredibly happy and completely free of any fear or anxiety.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully awake for the entire time that I remember. I have no memories from the period of unconsciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was looking at my physical surroundings, and I could see them but here was this light in everything.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    no difference.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw my physical surroundings but bathed in a light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Profound Happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I was worried about how my disabled wife and son would get by without me, and I was assured that I was not about to die and would retuen to take care of them.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist.   I was a secular Buddhist with no particular expectations of afterlife.  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Buddhist   same as above but with a different belief about the afterlife.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Prior to the experience I did not believe that personalities survived death or were aware of living people. Now I know that both things are true.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My beliefs about the afterlife changed.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I was in telepathic communication with someone who I know loved me and whom I loved. They were telling me that it wasn't my time to die and I would be able to take care of my wife and son.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I had a non-specific awareness that I had existed before and would continue to exist after this life.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I felt like I was at the end of a conversation with someone on the other side about whether I was about to die. I wanted to die and 'cross over' but I was worried about my wife and son. The existence of continued consciousness after death was just assumed as a certainty,  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Only that there were people who loved me on the other side, but love seems like a weak word for it.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I look forward to my own death, though I have no desire to shorten my life. I now know that my daughter who was murdered a few weeks before is happy. My wife has felt her presence from time to time and I am now certain she is right. I have less anxiety in general. I have more compassion.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have less frustration about caring for family members and no more FOMO.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot describe either the euphoric Happiness or the light I cannot fully express the sense of being loved and cared for by the entity. These things don't really have any equivalent in my experience.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  The memory of the experience is vivid but I also remember all of the other events pretty well.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of love and the sense that there are entities on the other side who care about me. Also, that death of loved ones is not a tragedy.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    about a year.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have read books on the topic.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is just a certainty about it.  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It seems just as real as any other memory.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_b_probable_nde.html