{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_b_nde_214.html","mytitle":"James B NDE 214","mylang":"de"}
          	        James B NDE 214  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1419 James B NDE 214  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While stopped in the breakdown lane due to engine failure, I was rear-ended by a car doing sixty-five miles per hour. The left rear wheel was pushed up against the backside of the driver's seat; the vehicle was pushed over fifty yards and across the three northbound lanes of traffic into a concrete jersey barrier. A registered nurse was two cars behind, and when she checked me for a pulse and respiration, she found none, so she moved on to the next vehicle. Approx. four and half minutes later, I crawled through the passenger window and walked across the lanes of traffic.

I remember being drawn toward a warm and lighted place, and thoughts and ideas were being imparted to me as though people were talking to me, yet there were no faces. I felt safe and secure as I progressed toward the light, then, as though I was being yanked back on a bungee cord, I was pulled backwards into total darkness and I knew that I was scared, naked, and cold. I ran, but I did not know what I was running from. I ran off the end of a cliff or precipice of some sort and as I fell, it became lighter and I began to develop panoramic eyesight like a raptor. As I fell further, I finally took flight, and I saw far below me the body of a Native American woman lying face down in the dirt. I flew down to her, rolled her over, a great white bird rose out of her body and flew away, and I then went to ashes, much like a Phoenix. For years (every night), this experience manifested itself as a dream, and I was forced to relive it over and over again to the point where I was afraid to sleep. Years later, as I was about to begin a new college class, the professor walked in, looked at me, I looked at her, and she motioned for me to follow her into the hallway. I recognized her and she recognized me. She then began to recount to me the details of my experience when I died in vivid detail. As it turned out, she is a Native American (Mohawk), and is known as Snowy Owl Woman (great white bird). Since then, she has been my mentor, my shaman teacher, and my connection to the Shadow World. I have mixed my blood with hers, and I am known in the clan as Kahrhokon: ha, Old Hawk. I now follow the ways of the ancients, walk the Medicine Circle, and journey often to the Shadow World in behalf of others, helping them to understand the journey of death, and to dispel in others the linear nature of fear of death, and instill the faith that what lies ahead is a Sacred Path for all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 May 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   Died as result of a car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See body of experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was clinically dead, but very conscious and alert as to all that was going on in the other side experience.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Both going towards the light, as well as being yanked back by some force.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See body of experience.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Hard to find words to describe it -- it wasn't blinding, yet it possessed a warmth that almost imbued it with knowledge or wisdom.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See body of experience.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth, joy, elation, safety, fear, terror, loss of control, emptiness.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     But only while in the presence of the light/aura -- it was as though I had all the answers to all the questions that have/do/and will exist.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Father was a Calvinist minister~ predestination of the Reformation was a strong undertone.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Am Ph.D.'d in Philosophy in Religion~ I embrace all aspects of spirituality and have shifted from what was once a linear view of life to one of cyclical in nature~ much like 'samsara'.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My approach to life is a bit cavalier, I don't worry about money, what others think, I fear very little, I seek risk at every opportunity.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No human language cannot express the essence of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know danger before it happens -- I have to be hyper vigilant not to say anything to others to interrupt the cycle -- for me the danger is of no consequence, for I don't fear the outcome of facing the danger.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Hmmmmm -- I'll leave this one blank.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few, most envision NDE as some sort of paranormal 'thing' and react very strangely to the story. Besides, how do you find words to fully explain what happened and to impart to them to not 'sweat the small stuff, and it's all small stuff'. Only other NDE people understand, and we recognize each other with no words exchanged.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_b_nde_214.html