{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_nde_2893.html","mytitle":"James NDE 2893","mylang":"de"}
          	        James NDE 2893  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					James NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1007  James NDE  2893  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had an accident at work that damaged my spine beyond western healing, even though they tried, operations, and spinal injections, plus more operations to come. Extreme depression set in, suicide was a daily thought, my job let me go for being out sick too long, my wife divorced me because she said she could not withstand my depression.

So now I was alone for about a year, I started making friends but I was on 120 mg oxy and 120-180 mg morphine, plus valium 20 mg so it was difficult to do, I had good days and bad days and I saw no end in sight.

Then 11/02/2006 Saturday a game for the computer, ink for the printer, and quite a bit of photo paper. I planned to print many of my artistic photos, after I burned them all to CD. Maybe frame a few and put a bunch in a look book to drum up some business.

Things were looking up but in a worldly way. Then I woke up Saturday morning eyes filled with tears and my calf muscles in extreme pain. Plus my legs and spine was in unbearable pain and paralyzed just a purely unusable body and mind (this was a typical morning for me for more than a year). I have tried acupuncture, physical therapy, therapy, healings, massage, meditation anything I could try I did.

I reached over, grabbed my daily pill bottle, and shot it in my mouth. Then I looked in the mirror and opened my mouth and stuck out my tongue, I saw over a dozen narcotic pills. I just shut my mouth and swallowed took a swig of water. Not much went through my head I knew that it was too much but I did not really care at all, I waited about a twenty to thirty minutes and feeling bad and backed out and, I decided to call 911.

They spoke to me about amounts I took, why I took them, how the surgery went, just some vague questions, that to tell you the truth I do not remember that clearly, but all of a sudden I started hearing sirens in the distance slowing getting closer. I took too many medications, the officers came in and I was very compliant, we went over everything with the medics then we were walking to the ambulance, that's when things were getting a little fuzzy. During the trip, I must have been dosing off and I am not sure but I instantly slumped dead, I was dead and in full cardiac arrest. They were pounding on my chest. I was a code three. I was vaguely remembering a tech waking me by touching my chest. 

I saw myself from above. I watched a hand push a tube down my throat then the back of the two technicians heads and my body, then a metal tin like the bottom of a bread box and everything was calm then as if a sudden shock to my system I felt like I was in dumped into ice water. I then woke up in the hospital naked I was fighting for my life. It felt like I had ten people holding me down I was freezing and vomiting horribly.

I finally regained my composure and they had me cuffed to the bed, my arms and legs, there was an armed guard at the door peaking in on me every three minutes. I spent the night and most of the next day admitted to the hospital in the cardiac department; I spoke with a few physiologists and doctors and they removed the three day suicide hold on me and let me go home.

I have no way to explain my feelings but they are pouring out of me, Is this normal? Am I short circuiting? Was I dreaming all of this? Should I seek help? Can you please give me some insight on this situation? I will do anything to help me focus and enhance what is happing to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/2/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Overdose.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw the top of the ambulance. Then after the event for about a day I was very aware.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the top of the ambulance. Then after the event for about a day I was very aware.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Just as time had no meaning. All was floating like in water.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw myself from above, starting from the face or head and moving up.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    On and off I heard my name and sounds of the paramedics, then silence.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very calm, clearness, at ease.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just felt a purpose about all beings, I felt to understand everything if I was asked. Even afterwards.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Divorce. Ten year marriage.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   What happened, what did I see, was it real, how can I refine the experience and work on the energy created by it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the clarity of it all, how can I reproduce it without trying to kill myself again.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt its presence in myself I could predict things coming up, I just knew what was going to happen next for weeks after.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I want to learn more, I would love to experiment in reproducing the affects.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_nde_2893.html