{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1james_nde.html","mytitle":"James NDE 45","mylang":"de"}
          	        James NDE 45  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					James NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						110  James NDE  45  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Was severely depressed. Attempted suicide by overdose. I was discovered by the neighbor about 4 hours later. EMS arrived on the scene - I was already unconscious.  O2 saturation was 50%. I remember floating above the ambulance watching the paramedics cut off my clothes. My next memory is that of going down a dark brown/green cloudy/smoky tunnel. Then I was at a place that I can only describe as being outside. I could look in and see the entire universe galaxies, stars, planets, and the Earth. I had an overwhelming sense of aloneness accompanied by a feeling of wrong. I was utterly alone, without the presence of God. I felt something behind me or I knew there was and felt that if I turned and looked that I would be there forever. It was not a comfortable place. I saw the universe being destroyed before my eyes. Turning from brown to fire from right to left starting at the Earth. It was my universe that was being destroyed. Not yours or anyone else's. I knew the destruction of mine would have no effect on anyone else. I then found myself in an emergency trauma room. I was standing about 6 feet from my head on the right side. I could see myself on the gurney and the nurses were washing my body as I had charcoal everywhere. (NDERF Note: oral charcoal is routinely given to treat oral medication overdose due to the charcoals absorbent properties)  I distinctly remember watching them roll me onto my left side so they could was my back and buttocks.


My next memory is of waking up intubated, back in myself in the ICU.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1/6/99

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death Suicide attempt. Took an overdose of muscle relaxers - about 150. Found about 4 hours later. Taken by ambulance to park and transferred to helicopter. Intubated in-route cardioverted X3 in-route. Unknown if cardiac arrhythmia or asystole.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I'm not sure, but I was not aware of any change in my form, etc...

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Comatose

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I knew that time had no meaning in the place I was.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Dark, murky, cloudy, smoky. Dark green, brown.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just seeing the universe from outside.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      1st - aloneness, isolation  2nd - wrongness  3rd - a total absence of God  4th - embarrassment/regret  5th - profound thankfulness

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That the universe existed only for me. That all events on Earth occurred solely for my benefit, in my universe. That every person exists in their own personal universe. The may interact directly with each other but that each person's takes a different path based on the decisions one makes, but exists apart from all others...... Hard to explain…

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     If I turned around, I could not come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew that what I had done was wrong. That I would be forever  without God, if I chose to stay. But, I knew I had a choice.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Moderate   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     To be more spiritual. To leave the American dream and be  happy in life.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The concepts were just known. Like trying to describe a smell.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Waking up and waking up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some believed, some didn't.  Not sure about influence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_nde.html