{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jairo_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Jairo G NDE 9701","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jairo G NDE 9701  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jairo G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5234 Jairo G NDE 9701  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    We were all training on combative techniques. During training exercises, I fainted from a choke hold. 

  I had a feeling of  infinite gratitude as I left my body. I went through a dark tunnel as I focused on the small, dim light. Instantly, I went to a place where there was  infinite peace that was so profound that is why I am not afraid of death now.  

  I was in heaven with God. I heard music, both in English and Spanish,  It was so beautiful there as the people were walking side by side. From above, I saw the first heaven as angelical like the bible describes it. I saw myself physically and I was awake and aware of my presence there. I was flying under something that seemed like a snake. I can’t describe it, as I was not paying attention to that since there was so much beauty there. Below us, I saw the earth renew as a paradise. I saw beautiful, strong, gentle beasts I could barely recognize since I was looking at them from above. 

  I felt so much more than human  emotion because it was more of a complete, unchangeable, and indestructible type of fulfillment.  It was contentment and harmonious gratitude by grace. It was so beautiful and hard to explain since I had never felt something like that in my earthly life. I decided to return back to earth with regret because I have never felt so much in peace in my life. 
  
  I also saw a strong light by my side. As it got closer to me, I thought it was my father, but it wasn’t him. It was a living light that brought strong, loving, and peaceful energy.  I could never see who it was. He asked me if I wanted to stay or go. I didn’t want to leave that place, but at that moment my mom came into my mind. I thought about how she would feel without me as I have been her biggest support.  I didn't want to see her suffer. I told him I’ll go back and share what I saw with people even if they don’t believe me.  Then I came back through the same place where I entered. 

I had all my team around watching me because according to them my eyes were blank, and I was convulsing from the seizure after having received a chokehold in combative training by our trainer. 

  I am sure that after bodily death we will go to a true paradise, with peace, harmony, and endless love. 

  I knew it wasn’t a dream because I felt everything. I tasted heaven with my feet and felt something indescribable.  When it was time to come back, the light of GOD stared at me and talked to me, mind to mind no words.  I still have side effects from that day.    
    
Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2019    

NDE Elements:       

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening       

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant    

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

    How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Yes, the feelings were infinite; full of joy and gratitude.    
    
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       during the whole time    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No       

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Totally different    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was a mind to mind talk with God    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

    Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     Dark tunnel with a light at the end of the tunnel    
    
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light    

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes       

    Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Glorious eternal peaceful world. I was in heaven watching it. God showed me everything    
    
    What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Explained  above.    
    
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     God is love, and his creation is perfect. 

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

    Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I was asked if I wanted to stay.  I decided to return to share this with my mom.     
    
God, Spiritual and Religion:       

    What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian.   I didn't have  religion at the moment. I did attend to church by then, but was not religious.    
    
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian       

    Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs.      I never was taught heaven was real like that until that moment I experienced it.    
    
    Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     Now I totally understand there's a reason to exist, and God is love    
    
    Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   That was God.    
    
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

    During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I don't  understanding the question.    
    
During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I don't  understanding the question.    

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     His power around me, his presence is infinetily delightful. It was a light, I'm sure that was God.    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I don't  understanding the question.    

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     God is the purpose translated to love and a pure heart. The material world distract us from getting closer to the spiritual world.    

    During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I saw God, and those feelings were non-human. It is a whole different feeling in heaven.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I was able to chose if to stay in heaven or come back to earth.    

During your experience, did you gain information about life’s difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was not strong emotion of love, it was more of a continuation of gratitude and infinite and delightful peace    

    What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Now sometimes I'm depressed because I want to go to heaven, but I understand  God's purpose and I decided to stay here and share the message.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Got me closer to God and helped with my relationship    

After the NDE:       

    Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was on top of a snake or dragon flying in heaven, because I couldn't recognize that specific animal. It was hard to explain. On earth there were beautiful and humble animals walking  side to side with humans.    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience      

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        m    

    Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The moment I came back I had all my brothers and sisters from the Army around me.  I told them it was beautiful.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No       

    What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     More sensitive and connected to emotions sometimes    

    What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Real because I was there at the present moment, just as the person reading this right now at the current moment reading this alive and aware of his surroundings.    

    At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Yes, when I hear the christian song "I can only imagine.' it describes some of what I felt. I cry of joy    

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Right now I'm hearing "I can only Imagine" From Mercyme.           SONG 

    Surrounded by Your glory
    What will my heart feel?
    Will I dance for You Jesus
    Or in awe of You be still?
    Will I stand in Your presence
    Or to my knees, will I fall?
    Will I sing hallelujah?
    Will I be able to speak at all?
    I can only imagine
    I can only imagine   

                              I couldn't speak at all, it was mind to mind talk.                  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jairo_g_nde.html