{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jaime_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jaime T Probable NDE 8020","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jaime T Probable NDE 8020  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jaime T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4163 Jaime T Probable NDE 8020  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On Saturday, February 20, 2016 at 12 noon, I received a visit from my eldest son Dario and a friend, who I had asked for help.  They came to help me with cleaning the room on the third floor. I asked them if they had had breakfast, as they live far away from me.  The said that they hadn't.  I made them breakfast.  Then we started carrying down items from the third floor to the first floor.  I went down just three times and I felt very tired, perspiring a lot. I sat down to rest.  My son accompanied me.  I felt that the tiredness wouldn't improve and it just got worse.  So I said to him to take me to the hospital, since there was one very close, just a stone's throw away on the corner.  He took me there, parking the vehicle at the entrance. 

I continued to deteriorate and I had no strength in my extremities.  At that moment, I felt I was dying.  At the same time, I felt an infinite peace.  Little by little, a light clouded my vision.  I said to my son, 'I am going now! Take care of yourself, and take care of your brothers!'  I remember that I raised my hand and waved goodbye to him.  Meanwhile, he carried me and all I know is that I heard a voice, saying to me 'Papa look at me! Speak to me!' Now I am in the emergency room and someone was saying to someone else, 'Myocardial infarction, myocardial infarction! Open the doors'.  Then the infinite peace and light that had clouded my vision continued and approached me.  I responded to some tablets that they had put under my tongue.  They asked me my name, that of my parents, where I lived, what year I had been born, and then after testing my lucidity, sent me to a special cardiac hospital.  There they performed two angioplasties.  I stayed in the hospital for special open heart surgery for them to carry out a triple heart bypass, which I have been through and then I was in cardiac recovery.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  20 FEBRER0 2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was suffering a myocardial infarction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was listening to my son asking them to attend to me.  The doctor was a woman who saw to me, she ordered them to administer Isosorbide powder, sublingually, on the right hand side, then on the left side.  Then I could feel myself returning. I started again to see sharply everyone that was at my side the doctor, nurse and my own son.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed that I could concentrate more in the light that had approached me, also listening to that which was going on around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From when I could only see the light, and not being able to move my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It seemed to slow down, from when they carried me in, to when I got to the hospital seemed an eternity.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I just saw a very intense light like the screen of a TV without a signal, coming towards me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the experience, my sense of hearing was better than normal; I could hear different voices and hear different noises.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light that approached me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A great peace, that let me go. I didn't fight to stay here it was more than I wanted that the light touched me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood that this is death and it is not so bad, you feel peace and tranquillity; that my life had born fruit, I remembered all my children, how good they were, and my family, my parents, and that I wanted them to know I was at peace.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   At the moment I wanted to return, because my last son was very small, and my parents were still alive.  A father should never have to bury his own son, which would be very sad. Also, that I only have one niece that I still haven't enjoyed seeing yet.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I commend myself to God more frequently and I ask Him to give me signs of what I have to do at this moment.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistent because I know there is a God, and that He is waiting for me, but inconsistent because I never saw a light that bright neither as my senses were sharpened that much, and that time passed so slowly.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I have more faith in God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The light is God, he who would take me to another home.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew that the light that was touching me came from another home.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I beat myself up for not keeping to the advice of nutritionists, in my daily life my clinical results have always been towards the maximum and now with these things I feel at peace.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     How much I love my family, a feeling that one can't explain, or feel in daily life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am more of a believer now.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more indulgent with everyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   This experience is in my memory as if it were another in my life; so awakened like my dreams.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        About the fact that I felt an infinite peace

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They believe me, because I have always been a person that inculcates respect and that never lies, so they believed more.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Like a miracle and I am grateful they let me come back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I continue in the belief that I was favored and that they let me return, because I still have important things to do here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While at the hospital, and when I told my story at Sunday Mass and to my family.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That I feel that I have a purpose that I commend myself to him, on this second chance.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You should ask if others that have had similar experiences feel that they have a purpose and have a second chance, as I feel I have had.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jaime_t_probable_nde.html