{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jaime_nde.html","mytitle":"Jaime NDE 8051","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jaime NDE 8051  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jaime NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4184 Jaime NDE 8051  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was unconscious from my fall and striking my head. 

 While unconscious, it was both, dark but not dark. There was no tunnel or light. I did hear female voices asking if it was time to take me. I lay there in complete comfort and peace waiting for the answer. 

 I did not hear it but became conscious. I was very disappointed to be back. I didn't want to come back. 

 When I regained consciousness, I had a grand mal seizure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness    Direct head injury.  Having irregular heartbeats resulting in stopping and fainting.  Other My heart stopped. I fainted; falling and striking my head on cement walkway.  I was having irregular heartbeats resulting in stopping and fainting. My heart stopped. I fainted, falling and striking my head on cement walkway. My heart had stopped and I probably had internal head bleeding due to striking it when I fell.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to be very aware of what was happening. I could hear the voices clearly, even though they were whispering.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt very alert when I was lying there comfortably, waiting to hear the answer.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no idea how much time had passed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clearer vision; it seemed that I could 'see' what I was hearing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much sharper sense of hearing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A darkness that wasn't dark.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was floating in a 'waiting room'.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. No pain. I was happy. Very disappointed to come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I knew that it was being decided if it was my time yet.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I had been raised a Methodist but was no longer practicing.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I gave up on man-made religions, and just believe what's in my heart.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Not affiliated with any organized religion. I am spiritual.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe death is not the end, only returning home.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I thought the voices were angels.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     My angels were clearly waiting for an answer from a higher power.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I believe had it been my time, the Angels were there to help me pass.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I no longer fear death. I believe I will be reunited with loved ones.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because it was dark but not dark. I could hear fluttering -- like wings. There were all females attending to me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I definitely remember this more clearly than other events, because it made such an impact on me. I didn't speak of this for about ten years because I was afraid people would think me crazy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About ten years, I finally told my mom. She believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that I was completely cognizant of what happened to me when I was out.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience never left me. I still think and talk about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jaime_nde.html