{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jaime_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jaime M NDE 3497","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jaime M NDE 3497  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jaime M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1578 Jaime M NDE 3497  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My cardiologist ordered me to undergo an outpatient catheterization on Wednesday, January 30. I entered the hospital at 11.30am and the doctor administered local anesthesia to my right groin and started to work with his instruments. As he did so, we were having a normal conversation. Yet, in an instant, I found myself on a patio of a two-story house and at the bottom, about 30 meters below, there were many people - there must have been 50 - and they were all very happy. They were listening to party music and they all chanted my name: "Jaime, Jaime". It seemed to be a "welcome" party. The place was very beautiful with much light. I was imbued with a sense of fortune and happiness that I'd never before felt with such intensity. It was, without doubt, the most pleasant sensation of my life. The feeling of being welcomed was the strongest I’ve ever experienced in my life. I was able to recognize my deceased mother among all those people, but when I advanced towards her, I felt my chest burn with the electric shock of 300 joules [from a defibrillator]. I returned to the operating room. I asked the doctor what had happened and he said I'd had a small cardiac arrest, normal in my condition, as they uncapped the vein during the rapid resuscitation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  30 DE ENERO 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    CATETERISMO CARDIACO  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember the whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember the whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed that 1 or 2 minutes passed but it really was 30 seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness of the light was very intense but without causing damage. Very pleasant.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Many people whom I didn't recognize. I was able to meet my mother, but when I started to walk towards her I felt the electric shock [from the defibrillator] that returned me to my body.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light was very golden, intense, it imbued everything but it didn't blind one, as looking at the sun would have done.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     El sitio era el patio cercano a una bella casa de dos pisos. Con colores muy bonitos.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, peace, quality happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   ESCEPTICO DE LA VIDA DESPUES DE LA MUERTE

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a believer but not in the churches.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a believer but not in the churches.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are immortal.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to be more tolerant. I am a personality type A but I'd like to be a type B [Type A and Type B Personality Theory is a theory that describes two common, contrasting personality types — the high-strung Type A and the easy-going Type B].   I moved from being a skeptic to being a believer.   I try to do good in as many ways as I possibly can.    

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     It seems that I understand mankind's destiny as a spiritual one. That is why Jesus Christ came. Before, it did not interest me in the least.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The welcoming party was very significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Three days after, I read the NDERF website and some others. At the beginning, I believed that NDE was craziness - due to my skepticism. But I soon learned that we are many, those who have passed through this experience. I also read about the ideas of the non-believers, but their arguments of chemical reactions due to lack of oxygen in the brain don't convince me; it doesn't explain why we all experience the same ‘hallucination’ and it doesn't explain why some brains see the vision and others - in the same circumstances - don't.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it with all my senses and my remembrance is not like that of a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am not afraid of death. But I am afraid of the punishment of the soul for bad actions in this earthly life. I try to explain this to my friend, associates and family members. And I would like to explain it to all human beings.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jaime_m_nde.html