{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jade_nde_16099.html","mytitle":"Jade NDE 16099","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jade NDE 16099  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jade NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4648 Jade NDE 16099  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  It was summer and I was a young teenager who was very physically fit.  I rode my three-speed bike every day and would push myself to ride up steep hills, even without hands.  One day I was riding with my sister and we turned up a steep incline.  I stood up on the pedals and pumped my way up to the top of the hill.  Then I got off to push my bike onto a wooded trail.  My sister said I suddenly fell unconscious over on my bike.

  I  become another person - a man.  Then the "man" would be in MY body and then I slowly became 'me' again.  'I' became a grown man walking along, looking down at red desert sand.  I had all the lifetime of memories of an older man, around the age of 60.  He had a good life, wife, and grown children.  I was thinking of how my village loved me and I loved them.  The sun was warm and I was happily walking along the sand.  

  Then there was SUDDEN BLACKNESS! - The man jumped in fear of this.  I was lying in the woods on the ground as I convulsed.  I believe this is when my heart started again.

  Then the Man comes to consciousness in MY body.  I am deeply frightened, wondering what happened? I was walking along when everything went black.

  Slowly, I open my eyes and think, 'GREEN? Green leaves???? I do not understand! I do not know of such green leaves!'  I am SO afraid! I am wondering, 'What happened? Where am I?' Then I look to the side, and think, 'Who is this person looking at me? WHERE AM I???!!!'

  I (the man) begin to cry.  As I sob, the feeling begins to return to my fingers and toes.  'I' begin to become 'Me' and the man fades away. 

  As continue crying, I recognize my sister and begin to feel the stickers that I am lying in and the rock behind my head.  My sister said that I was purple.

  Great changes happened in my life after this event.

  I became extremely psychic.  I am able to know the future.  This knowledge saved my schoolmates from getting in trouble and it also protected us from getting in a car accident. 

  Watches no longer work on me and I have become immune to electric shocks.

  I became extremely empathetic towards my very abusive parents.  I now view them as though they were my children who needed my guidance and protection.

  I felt it my life purpose was to forgive them and take care of them until death. 

   Every day felt like deja-vu, but as though I had lived my entire life before. I knew every incident to come.

  For example - 

  I knew I would divorce my husband before I married him, I knew with whom I would be with next, and I knew I would raise another's son.  I also saw other events from my future.

  Decades later, I came to believe in reincarnation to explain the way I felt like my parents were my children.

  As an explanation as to why I feel as though I have lived this life before is that perhaps I did? Or perhaps I recall the prior planning of this life? 

  For many years after my experience, people said I glowed.  I even had a doctor tell me that she thought I would die if I had children because I seemed to be barely In this life. 

  Anyways, I recall the incident more clearly than anything else. 

  My religion was a practicing Christian. I am now Agnostic.     					  

           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jade_nde_16099.html