{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacqueline_m_father_exp.html","mytitle":"Jacqueline M Father Experiences 4019","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacqueline M Father Experiences 4019  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacqueline M Father Experiences  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE and Experiences  			1930 Jacqueline M Father Experiences 4019  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is the story as told to me by my late father; I felt the need to share it with you. This gave me great comfort when he passed away for the final time.

My late father Lennie developed cancer of the left maxilla and was sent to the Royal Brisbane Hospital in Brisbane to have an operation to take out the cancerous parts in his face (internal). He remembers going out to it in the operation, he said at some time during the operation he was above his body looking down on it, he knew he was dead. He said the next instant he was sucked through black space the blackest he could ever imagine, and then he was standing outside this golden tunnel. Inside the tunnel he said, was a holy man standing there with the whitest brightest long robe on. He had long hair and dad knew this man to be very holy. Dad also knew that he could not go in the tunnel until it shone bright gold; dad said he wanted to go in because he could feel the love and peace all around him. He said he did not know how he knew the man was holy or know why he could only enter when the tunnel shone bright gold but he knew. When the tunnel did not shine bright gold the man inside the tunnel said you have to go back we are not ready for you, when we are we will come and get you. Next thing dad remembers is waking up in his body in recovery.

The experience bothered dad he could not forget what had happened to him, he knew it was not his imagination or an hallucination it was real to him, dad being an atheist could not fathom it. Dad was sent back to our hometown in Blackwater to die; he had secondary cancer in the bones. One day while in Blackwater Hospital, he had a visitation from an Angel who identified himself to dad as a messenger from God (it was 12:00 midday) and the Angel's feet did not touch the ground. He told dad I have a message for you from God. In order for you to get to Heaven you have to follow these instructions, dad did not tell me all the instructions but one he did tell me was that he had to read the Bible every day till he died, and that if he did not understand it to get a pastor to help him.

I nursed at a hospital in Rockhampton so I had dad transferred to our Hospital because it had an oncology ward and I knew dad needed to be near his family.

About two weeks before he died he told us that he would not be here in two weeks, my sister asked him why where are you going dad? He said I will be dead. He said this the night another young guy named Danny died, Danny had melanoma and was in the bed opposite dad. Dad relayed to me what happened just prior to Danny taking his last breath, dad saw two large Angels enter the room and stand on either side of the bed not touching the ground, dad heard Danny take his last breath and then Danny with the two Angels stood at the foot of dad's bed. One of the angels said to dad we will be back for you in two weeks' time. Dad died exactly two weeks to the day that Danny died. He told me that when he saw Danny's soul that he was happy and rejuvenated. Another thing dad told me - do not be afraid of death as it is like walking through a door. My father went from being a person who believed in nothing to being saved by Almighty God and for that, I am so grateful and privileged to have been a witness to his saving grace. A few years after dad died, I was getting a message that I had to find Danny's mother and tell her about her son. I said Lord I do not know where to find her if you want me to tell her I am sure you will help it happen. It became very persistent that I find her, as luck or divine intervention would have it I happened to be working with Danny's best mate - I only found out when we were talking about previous jobs we had done. I told him where I had nursed and he told me his best mate had died there in the year I nursed there. I asked him his mate's name and when he told me, I said thank you God. Danny's friend put me in touch with Danny's mother that very day and I asked her if I could come and see her immediately after work she said yes. Danny's mum was a very frail little old lady and I was so afraid to tell her about Danny's last moments for fear of her not believing me or upsetting her. I told her what my father had witnessed when Danny died, she broke down crying, and I was mortified as I thought I had done the wrong thing.

I said I am sorry for upsetting you like this. She said you have not upset me these are tears of joy, you have made me the happiest mother alive, she said she had fretted for years wondering what had happened to Danny after he died and now she knew that he was saved. God moves in mysterious ways. Danny's mother had been suffering severe depression since his passing Danny was twenty-six years old when he died, my dad was fifty-one years old and they both died on a Sunday two weeks apart. I hope this gives comfort to many people out there - Jesus and God are real Angels are real I know because my dad saw them and was saved. God bless all of humanity.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   He died through surgery but was brought back.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This was relayed to me by my late father, he knew things automatically.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Dad did not say.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Black empty space.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A holy man with long brilliant white robe on and long hair, could not make out the face.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     large golden tunnel

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       My father felt at peace and wanted to go into the tunnel and stay there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Dad did not say.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     He was told he was going to die in time to come.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Dad became religious, and so have I.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   nondenominational

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Dad became religious, and so have I.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knew instantly the man he saw was holy, even though he had no previous belief in the spiritual.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My father thought no one would believe him.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To dad there were several parts of his near death and visitation after he was sent back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Dad shared this experience with me two weeks before he did die for the final time. Most believed because they knew dad was an atheist.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Dad explained all he told me was very real the NDE then the visitations from Angels. I know he would never say anything like this if it had not been real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because dad was a transformed person after his NDE he was at peace he was confident in the knowledge he had been given a chance by God the Father for salvation. He was not afraid of death, dad did not preach but he told me his story and I am so thankful to God that he did.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe that by sharing this NDE concerning my father it may give comfort to other people who have lost loved ones or who do not have any belief in God or Jesus, it shows that a Man who had no belief witnessed that there is life after death and that God and Jesus do exist, amen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacqueline_m_father_exp.html