{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacqueline_hw_nde.html","mytitle":"Jacqueline HW NDE 7313","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacqueline HW NDE 7313  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacqueline HW NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3727 Jacqueline HW NDE 7313  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There was a point of knowing. With that knowing, came no fear. I wasn't frightened at all. Also at that point, there is no concept of time. As on my return back to my body and back to this earth, I was told that I was clinically dead for twelve minutes. As there is now concept of time, everything seems to move both very fast and very slow at the one point.

Upon experiencing the tremendous light, which to our normal eyes would seem almost blinding, I first saw our dog, Mr. Miyagi, who had passed six months earlier. He had died of old age, but upon that meeting, he was like a lion, in his prime, and sitting in a meadow. He radiated love for me and for our time that had been spent together on this earth. We didn't communicate through words; it is just a knowing.  

I then met Malcolm G, who was a life-long family friend, and a very strong influence in the way my early adult life panned out. He had passed of cancer a few years earlier and was a strong handsome young man. I was actually very surprised to find that he had passed of cancer, as he had always been a very sick child suffering from kidney disease and having had two kidney transplants. His body was always weak.  I felt a sense of laughter all the way around Malcolm, as he always had a wonderful sense of humor and wanted to become a comedian. I think he would make all the spirits around him laugh! 

I then saw my mother Margret, who had committed suicide eight years earlier. She was beautiful, a petite lady with long blonde hair and surrounded by children, as if she was teaching them or talking to them. She radiated peace and none of the trauma she had experienced in her lifetime. Her message to me was very strong. That I was very much loved and to stay connected to my sister. Although Caroline and I have always had a lot of love for each other, we have never been particularly connected. Her last words to me were, 'the only thing that's real is love.' As I have been told by numerous people, those were the first words I spoke upon awakening.

My last encounter was with my Father John, who had been brutally murdered twenty years before the date of my encounter, by my godfather, at our family home with the intent of also murdering Margret.  My father looked incredibly tall. He was very statuesque, with his jet black Brylcreamed back. He was looking very dapper. He radiated peace and was incredibly refined and charming. My father, in this lifetime, was the type of person who had a presence when he walked in the room. Again, I was told I was very much loved, and from that point on I felt a tremendous force, as if being pushed at a great speed.

Then, I awoke.

I strongly remember the presence of four people in the room, in intensive care at the hospital. I still could not see properly, as my sight had not returned. I could feel the presence. Two of which were doctors and Rhonda, a lady who lived on the property with us.  I could strongly see an aura of pale blue around my husband David.

I regained my sight, with time. I was then told the doctors were very concerned about that, but I had no fear.

The road to recovery then started.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  22nd of October 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The day was a Sunday, a rather warm October day. As I sat down for a rest, I started to think I had sunstroke as I had not been wearing a hat. A tremendous surge of heat ran through my body. On standing and taking a few paces forward, I knew I was in trouble. I lost my vision immediately and could hear the pound of my heartbeat become increasing loud and slower. I knew I was dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest consciousness and alertness from the moment of seeing the light until being pushed back. The only words that I can use to describe it are that you are so aware and so conscious, that how we live during this lifetime on Earth is that we are numb. We experience very little here. There you are enlightened and all your senses are alert 1000% more than you will ever experience during your time on this earth.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     When I was told that I'd passed over for twelve minutes, I felt very surprised by that, as it seems much longer. It seems I did so much on my passing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The only way that I can answer that question, it that it is like you are wearing rose colored glasses. The brightness and beauty of everything is extreme. When you come back to your body, those glasses are taken off, and the world looks duller.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sound and motion are all incredibly intense, an extreme pitch, which feels gentle and soft and not a strain on you at all; a sound of beauty not busyness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my pet dog, Mr. Miyagi, Malcolm Gregory, my childhood friend, Margret, my mother and John, my father, who are all deceased.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I had a feeling of travelling through a tunnel towards light and being surrounded by light. But I did not have the feeling of a godly presence.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I entered a beautiful meadow of such rich colors that you will never find them on a color palette on earth with bright flowers and just an endless stream of openness.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt nothing but pure love. Love surrounded me and I knew that the intentions of everybody around me were all for good.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     You have no feeling of conflict. All past dissatisfaction with relationships and with yourself seem meaningless, as the only thing that is real is love. That is the only emotion that our spirit takes with us.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt that the decision was made for me that I would return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I will just say I believe through my parents, Margret and John, I was given the opportunity for spiritual openness.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist   I was brought up under the influence of the Church of England, during my school years. Both of my parents were very open minded and leading on more of a spiritual  path. I remember in my teenage years. Both my parents on two occasions going to hear the Dali Lama in London. So Buddhism was starting to make more sense than conventional religon.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As a child I used to suffer seizures. I was diagnosed as being petite mal epileptic. When I was eleven years of age I had my tonsils and adenoids taken out - a very common procedure done in the UK at that time.. I was over anesthetized and when brought back round after a very brief period I had a knowing that I had three exit points in this human existence, of which I am talking about exit number two.  I also have a knowing of how much time I have left in this human experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that our purpose is the same for all. I greatly believe that we all have love as our core being and the wanting to be loved. We create these boundaries ourselves by what we call culture, tradition and religion, which we all create to give ourselves a sense of belonging. What we believe is a sense of difference. What I now know is that we are all here for the same purpose and the only emotion that is real is love. The rest of which we manifest through our circumstances and the choices we sometimes make.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I definitely had a sense of knowing that our spirit is here for the purpose of sharing and to love one another and the people that come into our life are all relevant to us somewhere along the line.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The whole purpose of our spirit coming into this body is the purpose of joy.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I encountered awareness, having seen my family, friends and pet. But not specific information.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The only thing that is real is love. That message was given to me first by Mr Miyagi who gave me love and gratitude for his life that we shared together. My dear childhood friend Malcolm for our first experience of love to another person and the unconditi

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have had my story documented in Australia and aired on channel seven TV. Since the event, I have had many people ask me questions. All of which I have a knowing of the answer. At times, it can be difficult to stay to your own truth. As we live in this world of busyness.  I wish for my story to be told. As I believe as a young child, I always had a knowing that my path was going to exceed the challenges in life that most people expect.  I do believe that I know how long my spirit will stay in this body and I believe we all know that.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My husband and I have a very strong mental connection. I am not as needy of his attention and time as I feel I used to be. I do understand that as much as we can love each other.  At this point in time we need to allow each other to be free. I also have found a different connection with Rhonda our tenant, who used to rent on our property in Australia, but has moved with us to New Zealand. Her path of being a Christian may not be the same as my viewpoint, yet is still for the purpose of love. I have found with all my friends that we really can love each other, regardless of different opinions.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's difficult to find the right words to convey the beauty and intensity of what you are trying to say

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It is like it only happened yesterday. Like I said in an earlier question, when crossing over there are no time boundaries. All those restrictions we place on ourselves, in this lifetime.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I believe we all have psychic ability, but in mainstream life we tend to push it aside by those feelings of what we think is putting logic to something which can be a gut feeling.  I do remember as a very young child, telling my mum and dad I was going to travel the world, of which I have. I would be wealthy. I remember referring to a princess in a castle, as most girls do. And that my experiences that I would have and the people that would come into my life would all be significant. Having experienced great loss and trauma through the murder of my father and suicide of my mother, I did always have a knowing I was not the same as the girl next door.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All parts of my experience are incredibly meaningful. The first part the meeting with my dog that had passed, Mr. Miyagi, told me that it is very important to live with animals in your life and to love them as they have been part of our spirits' past experience.  My dear friend Malcolm who showed me the strength I had during those early years for all the challenges that would come in my life.  And both my parents Margret and John who taught me from an early age to think outside the box, and confirmed to me that we choose the contract and parents coming into this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Reporters contacted the hospital where I was in the intensive care unit. As my anaphylactic death was unusual and we have been told that I was the longest recorded death for 2011 in Australia. Immediately on my return home, I was contacted by the media, both local and statewide all wanting to document my story. I had to take my time, to be kind to myself and allow myself to rest. Also the extreme pressure it had put on my husband David, who was trying to get back to his working life and Rhonda who rented a cottage on my property.  I didn't realize that the simple everyday things that you do of washing and cleaning and looking after animals (we lived on a large property). When I was incapable, how much people have to do around me to keep my life functioning.  I am eternally grateful to both those two people I have mentioned and many other friends and distant family for wanting to help me and doing it through the one thing that we are brought on this world to do; to love.  People who truly see your spirit and you see theirs have only one intention. That is to love and help you through the most unusual circumstances.  There was not one single family member or friend that didn't always be what I always thought they were.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   As I've stated before, as I child of 11 I went into a very ordinary operation to take my tonsils out. I was over-anesthetized. I certainly did not have the experience that I am talking about today, but I did have the knowing of my three exit points and I did have the knowing that all family and friends would tell me and so did tell me that I was very artistic and special.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I awoke I had no vision. So you go by a stronger sense. I was not for one minute scared or fearful of not regaining my sight, or knowing as I was told by the doctors that I could have severe disabilities neurologically and physically from my long period of death. As my husband told me, I showed no signs of anxiety and never complained about the pain. I just felt I had to go through this, but I just knew that physically and mentally I was going to be OK.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   As I've stated before, when I was eleven years of age, but nowhere near to this extent. I do not have a strong memory of this event, except for knowing this was an exit point.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe my body and spirit has always been very compassionate in these forty eight years that I have lived here. What do we really mean by that? I believe that we define passion by how much we give out to other people all the time and put very little on ourselves. Yet, in my thoughts and dreams, when I was a young girl, I could fly everywhere and I could be anything; and that to a degree, I have done. Prior to this experience, my own self-doubt would always weigh me down. I remember my father always saying, and there has been lots of poetry and songs written about this, that only the good die young, because they get it. It sounds ridiculous at some times we place death through age and experience, through all these conflicts that we continually go through, yet it always seems to be the young spirits that cross over.

  Both Margret and John passed away young, and we should use that word as there is no such thing as death, both being high-spirited people. That was the contract I took on when coming into this life. You need to be high spirited and what we call now-days an upbeat person, because it is always about choice. I chose my husband David many years ago in the contract of my life, to intervene,  being more of a spiritual person, but we use that word too often and realistically it comes down to being a loving person as our connection with every human being will always be the same.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacqueline_hw_nde.html