{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacqueline_c_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Jacqueline C Possible NDE 9480","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacqueline C Possible NDE 9480  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacqueline C Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						5096 Jacqueline C Possible NDE 9480  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had been under a pain doctor's care for quite a few years from being diagnosed with fibromyalgia and osteoarthritis.  

    I did my best to stay away from  the pain medication with the more dangerous side-effects.  On this day, I was home alone and dealing with so much pain, that I gave in. I was desperate for the pain to stop so I was ready to try a fentanyl patch.  I asked my husband to help me put one on before he went to work. We followed all directions to make sure we didn't make a mistake in the placement. My husband went off to work and I started my day. It was an ordinary day of washing dishes and doing laundry. Around 11:00am I started to feel tired, so I decided to turn on the TV and take a quick cat-nap. Soon I fell asleep. 

Something woke me from my nap. As I began to sit up, I could see a thin silver, shining thread/cord of light coming from my body. As I watched the thread, I noticed that I could feel it taking my spirit out of my body. After watching for a few more minutes, I finally realized that I didn't want to go. As I started to stand up, the string floated away from my body and disappeared into thin air. As far as I know, there was no entity in the room with me. There was no sound coming from the TV during the incident. I felt sure that if I had watched for much longer, my spirit would have been taken and I would have been dead. 

I called my husband and we agreed that I should remove the fentanyl patch and not try them again. Even though the patch may have delivered too high of a dose, I know that I was wide awake and not hallucinating.  When I called my husband, I was not in a stupor or unable to talk or walk.  I have since researched the silver-thread theory at death. I believe that something was hanging onto my soul and was slowly removing it from my body. This entity did not seem evil, but I sensed it was a kind, beautiful entity from God. I have wanted to tell other's about this experience, but have not had the courage until I found this website. Thank you for giving me the space I needed to tell my story. 
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2008  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Drug or medication overdose.       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I felt like I was so alive and awake.  I am usually at a lower level of alertness because of taking my medications.  

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time, I was looking at the silver cord that was attached to my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     It felt like time was standing still. I felt no sense of any bodily functions or any movement around me.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was very clear with clean lines.  I could see the outline of every part of the silver string. It looked almost like it was sparkling with dew or jewels on it.  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was so quiet, even though the TV was on. I couldn't hear any sound at all  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was a bit scared, then amazed at what I was seeing. Then back to fear that I may be taken away from my family.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   While I was very entranced with what was happening before my eyes, my mother instincts kicked in. I could only think of my family and what they would do without me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt that we are all destined to die, but it isn't always the way people think or see it as. It can be very peaceful.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I did feel that there was someone, perhaps God, calling my soul home. It was  like my life expiration date was up.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I'm just not sure. I know there was no pain in my body as the silver string was being pulled out. I felt no fear that I was going anywhere that I shouldn't.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I will never be able to forget what happened. I wish I could find more people who have had the same experience, so we could talk about it together.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the ability to see things about other people's lives.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am so glad I could see such a peaceful way in which God can take His servants home.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My knowledge was due to interest as a teenager in all things psychic. The interest has waned during my mommy years, but picked back up when a person described his  NDE to me.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know what I saw. The silver string was so clear, like I could have reached out and touch it. My thoughts were so clear at that moment. I could have just waited until the cord reached my heart and then left this world or realm, but I chose to stay.  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I feel it is the same as the above answer. No one can take away what I saw and felt. It was my experience, my reality  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacqueline_c_possible_nde.html