{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacque_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Jacque M NDE 4570","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacque M NDE 4570  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacque M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2196 Jacque M NDE 4570  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On March 1, 2010 around 3:00 pm I am being awakened after a five hour operation.

I heard, 'breathe' then for a time I heard nothing at all. I breathe softly and exhale. Suddenly, I'm surprised to find myself fully awake and feel a great joy, blissfulness; I'm in a space/time that in no way resembles life on Earth. I understand that I've died. I smile with wonder and say to myself, 'Oh, it's like this!'

I don't see anything much, and heard nothing either, but I feel an intense well-being, a sense of wonder in an immaterial world, exalting and serene, that seems to function according to superior values, entirely unknown in the Earth world. It isn't made up of individuals and I can melt into it, I already belong.

I am intensely happy and would like to let myself go on this exhalation, but I have a choice to make, I know that I can still breathe and return to life, I choose this option quite willingly because for me, refusing it would put an end to my life and I might still have something to do on Earth. I breathe again, and wake up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01-03 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other Chirurgie majeure sous anesthésie générale (complication)  Difficulty breathing. After surgery, respiratory functions didn't start up again. A lung had collapsed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the first instant, when I became conscious of this new world to which I now belonged.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The Earth world to which I had belonged was receding.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Apart from a faint smile of happiness, I couldn't sense my senses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Apart from my smile and the exhale followed by a breath that revived me, my physical body was not part of the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I sensed this luminous world without seeing it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Je n'ai pas visité physiquement. Je me suis sentie à un niveau ou dimension admirable.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, serenity, intense joy, union with the Absolute.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that the world of a superior level had nothing in common with anything that might exist on Earth, whether it be its beings or its functioning. I learned that dying is gentle, without intending it. The memory of it gave me the courage to face difficult moments afterwards, while I was in hospital. Ever since, this experience gives me the strength to continue on my way because I have the certainty that at the end, there is something wonderful, indescribable. Also, since then, I feel the need to share it, to communicate this hope to other people.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain My relationships haven't had time to change. But my concerns are starting to evolve towards others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   In our world there are no words or comparable situations that can describe the state I was in, or the knowledge of this world of another order.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My already strong intuition seems to have strengthened even more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sudden awakening in this wonderful world, the intense feeling of happiness (bliss would be closer) and the certainty that I had touched the Absolute. I have never doubted it since.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After about two days in the hospital, with a nurse who believed it. After ten days, I shared with members of my family, all aged fifty and over, in order to reduce any fear of death. I am usually quite credible in their eyes but I couldn't say if they believed me this time.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had read a great deal on the subject while wishing to believe, I am quite skeptical.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I considered it and still consider it something that really happened. It couldn't have been a dream; it was too real and intense. When we dream and we wake up, we know it was a dream - which wasn't the case with this experience. It is possible that it was a function of the brain, which in a situation of impending death, is equipped to face the process, but in that case why would it have presented me with another world. A simple sense of serenity would have sufficed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacque_m_nde.html