{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacob_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Jacob D NDE 9749","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacob D NDE 9749  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacob D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5271 Jacob D NDE 9749  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    When I was 15-years-old, I began suffering from a strange psychological illness that confounded doctors. I was obsessed with my complexion. Today it is called dermatillomania. It was horrible and led to two suicide attempts by the time I had reached the age of 18.   

  On October 31, 1988, I decided I had had enough.  I walked out to my car and pulled it into the garage. I closed the door behind me and lay down in the backseat to die. I found myself floating above the car looking at my lifeless body in the car below.   

  When my mom came in,  she tried to get me out of the car, but I was too heavy. So she raced back into the house to call 911.   

  I should mention that I had a form but it wasn't my body which was probably in an ambulance by now.  My soul began a rapid descent through my body lying in the car and into a dark void.  It felt like it took about ten minutes. I came to a sudden stop, immobilized in a quagmire that prevented me from moving. I tried to run, but my legs would not move. Then I attempted to scream, but no sound came from my mouth.   Then, I saw a light began approaching me from the right side of my peripheral vision. It got brighter and brighter until it was about five or six feet from me.  The light spoke to me. There was nothing spoken audibly, but I heard a voice in my soul's ears. It went over my whole 18 years in about ten seconds. I was not a good person and was not attending any church.  Yet, I had enough knowledge to know who was talking to me.   

  He then moved a bit to his left and a chasm opened up between Him and me. I heard a million voices crying out in agony, along with hideous laughter. Then a smell came from the chasm. It was like that of rotting flesh. He then gave me the choice of either staying there at the gates of hell until judgment day or returning to this life in a painful and disfigured form. I then felt a sick feeling that was both, painful and embarrassing. I immediately knew that this was the sensation that I was going to feel if I had chosen to return. I guess I must have made my choice, because my soul began a quick ascent back to my body lying in a hospital bed. The entry felt like diving into a pool of warm water.   

  After many scans and tests, it was determined that I had damaged a part of my brain that is responsible for the reception of dopamine. "Ah, so you had Parkinson's disease," you might say. Well kind of, but not exactly. What I had was a Parkinson's-like syndrome that resembles end stage Parkinson's disease. So I have been trapped in a state of de facto end stage Parkinson's disease for the last 35 years. This has replaced my complexion as my primary concern.   

Upon reflection, He saved me in the only way He could have. He had to give me something that would make me fight instead of hide; something that would make me struggle without becoming depressed.   When I was 15-years-old, I began suffering from a strange psychological illness that confounded doctors. I was obsessed with my complexion. Today it is called dermatillomania. It was horrible and led to two suicide attempts by the time I had reached the age of 18.   

  In my old age, I have become weaker and weaker and the Parkinson's-like syndrom just keeps getting worse. My body is now riddled with arthritis. I am ashamed to say that three more suicide attempts have followed my wedding which took place in 1999. I believe that they were desperate attempts to get back to His presence. His presence must be something very special to get me to try to kill myself three more times and risk ending up where I was 35 years ago. I have struggled with the spirit of suicide most days since then, but I guess I'm immortal or something, so I will have to wait until he calls me back home.         

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 10/31/1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Suicide attempt       Other Brain death  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my mom come in the garage. She was crying hysterically and  tried to pull my body out of the car below me. Then my soul disappeared into the abyss.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was the same as what I feel now.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time I had the sensation of what it would be like to return to life.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     I guess it sped up because what I experienced took about ten to fifteen minutes. I was in a coma for four days on Earth.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't really have an answer to this question except that it wasn't my eyes that I was seeing through.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much more intense during the time I heard the voices.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I fell through a dark abyss, but there were no borders on the void. I couldn't see any walls.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The brightest light, that was so bright that I couldn't look directly at it, but it was warm and comforting.  
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I was at the gates of hell.  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear for the first part of the experience. Once I saw the light,  I felt a great deal of shame and the last part was a feeling of overwhelming love and peace.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I understood everything about myself for a brief period.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   Like I said,  I was given the choice of either staying there at the gates of hell until judgment day or returning to this life in a painful and disfigured form.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I wasn't religious, but I  knew who the savior was.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a born again Christian as a result of this experience.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am what you would call a born again believer in Christ.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My obsession with my complexion disappeared and I became completely focused on getting back to life as normal as it had been.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was Jesus. There was no doubt about it.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus was the light that I saw.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was in the presence of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. I don't mean to be that blunt,  but that was who it was.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was keenly aware that this was an experience that I had created by my suicide attempt and that I had died, clinically.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I would experience hardships like no other as a result of my actions, but that these challenges would save me from myself.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No words can really express how it feels to die and meet the savior of the world. That's why I didn't really attempt to describe this feeling.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  The conversation I had with the light of the world is a little bit blurry still and bits are being added and even subtracted almost every day.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it at church, so it was warmly accepted.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I think I had heard about it happening to people but I didn't give it much thought.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real.      I didn't know how to answer that question because the vision, or the revelation didn't come to me until I was in my twenties.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It is just too real to ignore and deny. The fact that I get little tidbits about the experience all the time is proof that it was real.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

ofk9gbp           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacob_d_nde.html