{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jacob_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Jacob B NDE 2827","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jacob B NDE 2827  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jacob B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						964  Jacob B NDE  2827  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  At the age of seventeen I was electrocuted to death after becoming bonded to a raw/live filament of a photographic lamp. The experience I can remember in perfect detail and I only survived for one reason: Apparently I am a medical impossibility.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   To be in pure spirit form, tested on every level is more real than the illusion that most people call living.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I had the choice of returning to this life or moving on to the next.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Taking time out of the equation in the physical sense is something that astronauts have touched upon only slightly. Mystics, shaman and people of ancient wisdom have been more in touch with these levels than most humans are even willing to scratch upon.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could clearly see the energy in everything.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the vibration of everything in differing tones and qualities.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     That's my business.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light that will be of significance to you would be the light that acts as a doorway through which one can pass through multi-universes.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw things that helped me to understand just how limited human perception really is...  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Everything.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     When one can see one's soul progression with crystal clarity and go through a pure life review, what do you think one would feel or see?  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        The fact that I must fulfill my destiny in order to reshape the world.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer feel disconnected from the higher powers and forces that be and I feel liberated from the human condition as far as religion is concerned. I understand things holistically in the context of the perfect interconnectedness between all things.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer feel disconnected from the higher powers and forces that be and I feel liberated from the human condition as far as religion is concerned. I understand things holistically in the context of the perfect interconnectedness between all things.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   To be connected to one's soul truth, for want of a better phrase, connects one with forces that make our material, illusionary lives on earth look pathetic and completely ignorant of the harmonious powers that yearn for realization.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have to call it as I see it. I cannot hide anything from anyone close to me in my life. I have shared as much as I can for the special people in my life because I value life and truth above all else.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was completely awoken after my experience. I created like never before. I could see the energy in everything and finally understand the answers to the question about life and death that I had be searching for all of my life and that is only scratching the surface. I awoke for the first time into the ancient history of my soul's evolution, embodied in the physical form in this beautiful yet turbulent time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire thing transformed my life forever. I will continue to shape and influence my life until the day when I have finished with this body.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Yeah, it took a few months before I could start to allow my conscious mind to expand enough to house the wisdom that had be imparted to me. I confided everything to a special woman whom I love and with my family and closest friends. For most people my story and the information that was imparted to me was too much for people to cope with. Nineteen years down the track, they now talk about it openly. I employed the pin-prick methods as opposed to the sledge-hammer method. When the sage walks away from the transformative situation, the people say 'Yeah, we did it ourselves.' The sage turns and smiles. For they know that their souls were the catalysts.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only through traditional outlets.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had to simply expand my soul, consciousness, and trust my intuition.  I could distinguish as to what was fantasy and what was reality/ I had to educate myself for months and months in the greatest thinkers in human history in order to shape the new temple of my belief system, that took a great deal of research and intense study.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am so glad that I was awoken because I always preferred the idea of knowing, rather than not knowing. Alas great wisdom comes at a price. My price was what most people have as a relatively care free youth in my country.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I haven't even started.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jacob_b_nde.html