{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jackie_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Jackie R NDE 3740","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jackie R NDE 3740  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jackie R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1738 Jackie R NDE 3740  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a passenger asleep in a car that my friend was driving, he fell asleep at the wheel and veered over to the opposite side of the road, we hit another car head on.

I don't remember any of the above as I was asleep, however after this happened I remember walking into a grey zone, another plane that was like a duplicate of this Earth. I wondered were my friend was.  Although I couldn't see him, I knew he definitely was not on this plane - it was just a knowing from somewhere I can't explain. I felt lost and confused it was hazy and I was walking through bush, trees - just wandering. It was misty grey, foggy almost.

I was not afraid but neither joyful, just confused and dreamy. All of a sudden, a firm father like voice told me 'You must go back, you cannot stay here!' It was not an evil voice just firm, as I was the type of person that would likely not listen to a softer tone. This voice I listened to and remember almost instantly becoming present again in my body, but it was only my head, near where some would call the third eye area that I was present, like my soul wanted to just sit there because my injuries were so bad. I was looking down with no knowledge of time, space or identity; it was just nothing, no feeling and looking at someone else's body. My body made a weak moan and my soul I think it must have been was wondering where it came from because it was so loud in the head area where I or we sat, very strange experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  30/01/01

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Other 'Unsure if clinical death, it was a car accident which took time to get me out of the car.'  Not sure if this question means, life threatening while have the experience or life threatening here on Earth? (i.e. the accident that caused the experience?)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I or my soul was in my forehead/third eye area.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time, space - nothing, it means nothing there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was grey and hazy, until I came back into my head, then it was color again.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Fuzzy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not see the being who I believe to have been God, but I definitely heard him, that's for sure! He told me in a stern voice that I must go back.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Walked through a greyzone.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, like I'd been thrown on impact out of my body. There was no emotion, just existence.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     A hundred percent accurate and always in dreams these future events come, they usually happen the next day or few days after dreaming it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual than before.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More spiritual than before.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It seems surreal, and I only remember it once I came out of the intensive care unit and accepted the accident had happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreaming future events and increased intuition.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When God told me to go back, it made me realize I was looked after and will always be guided when needed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm very open so almost as soon as I remembered, but people who have not experienced such things find it difficult to get their head around!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A little, about tunnels and white light, which I didn't see at all.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     The memory of it came flooding back after I was in Incubus my logic brain could not help try to rationalize it as a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     As above, but a little more understanding of what happened as likely being real after reading a lot about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just remembered that I envisioned the accident prior to it happening, not exact detail but brief flashes, and a strong feeling that 'something big' was going to happen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jackie_r_nde.html