{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jackie_nde.html","mytitle":"Jackie NDE 84","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jackie NDE 84  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Jackie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						472  Jackie NDE  84  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was about 7 years old. I woke up feeling as if lead weights were on my stomach. I told my Dad I felt sick to my stomach. After a few minutes, I sat up and vomited large quantities of blood. My Dad helped me into the bathroom. It had been dark in my room and he hadn't realized I had thrown up blood until I threw up again. At that point, in the bathroom I felt myself pass out. I remember I wasn't concerned about falling, I think because my Dad was holding me up, plus I had never fainted before, so I didn't know what fainting was about!


I remember a bit about a car ride to the hospital. Then I remember the nurses trying to get me to drink this grape flavored stuff (barium?) so that they could take an X-ray, but I kept gagging. They told me that I was not allowed to throw the stuff up. I tried hard not to, while they kept pouring it down my throat. But I couldn't control the nausea, and again, I threw up a large amount of blood. I guess it was then that they realized my parents had not been exaggerating when they told them about how much blood I had already vomited. They stopped trying to take the X-ray (and forcing me to drink the grape stuff.) I was aware of them running by my side while they were taking me down the hall on a gurney to another room. I woke up for a bit to see that the doctor had already stretched one arm out on a board of some sort and was inserting a needle into it. I turned a bit to see the same thing in my other arm. I remember the doctor telling me something; maybe words of encouragement?


The next thing I knew, I was floating above myself. I could see my parents on the other side of the curtain on the bed next to me. My Mom was smoking a cigarette; and my Dad looked very stressed, had his hands folded on his lap. I could sort of see myself, but mostly I was watching my parents (as a 7 year old would.) I don't remember having a body when I was above myself.


I could see my body, but couldn't see the me who was above the scene, up in the air doing the looking. Then, every time after that, when I tried to open my eyes, it was grainy and noisy, just like when cable goes out on your TV; same sound and visual. My first memory after that was being back in my body, waking up enough to know my Mom was there. She told me if I lay quietly, she would read to me. I remember drifting in and out. I stayed in the hospital for a week.


In my early 20’s, when I was having an ulcer problem, I found out more about what had happened, and why. They did an upper GI, which showed that my jugular vein was misshapen; probably due to the fact that I have always liked to sleep with my hand curled up under my chin. The doctor said he thought that years of sleeping like that, with the gentle pressure of my finger resting on my throat, had trained my jugular vein to bend into an abnormal position; a bit too close to my esophagus. This resulted in the piece of glass that I had swallowed nicking my jugular vein as it cut the inside of my throat.


Another thing: several years later, I was telling my Mom about my experience. She told me that soon after she lit the cigarette, the doctor yelled at her to put it out. But she kept smoking, ignoring the doctor, until a nurse said to her, ''Put it out NOW - or LEAVE! There are oxygen tanks present, and they could ignite!''


THEN, my Mom put the cigarette out; but she was embarrassed, she said, that she was yelled at by the doctor; and that she had buckled under their pressure to put the cigarette out (she is very strong willed!). She also told me that the point at which she had lit the cigarette was when the doctor had ordered more blood. The nurse had said, ''Do you want it stat?'' and his response was ''Stat, hell! You run, and you run fast…she is already dead…but we can maybe bring her around if we get more blood into her quick enough!'' That's when my Mom lit up her cigarette, she said. I said to my Mom, ''That's when I was floating above myself, and I saw everything you just told me, happening just the way you said it.'' We went on to corroborate other details of what I had seen. She was really scared and unnerved about this, because we shared the same memories of what had happened; and that was the same point that the doctor had just told the nurse I was dead.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1964

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  I swallowed glass by accident...it nicked my jugular vein in my throat...causing me to bled out very quickly   I had quickly bled out...and they where pumping it back into me...it happened what I think is a few minutes after they started the transfusionI had nicked my jugular vein by swallowing a piece of glass; maybe from a chipped drinking glass? The blood flowed down into my stomach. When I started to throw up, it made it worse, and I was rushed to hospital. Fortunately, one thing the doctor knew was that if blood comes out, you have to put more in! Later, after I had bled out, an upper GI series showed the nick, and that it had clotted over.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not seem to have a body as I floated above; no arms, legs, etc. Just awareness that I was able to see above the curtain. I was just pure consciousness. At one point, before I had risen higher up, I found myself looking at myself face to face. Then I changed positions enough to be looking down at myself. If I had had feet, they would have been standing next to my own head as my body lay on the bed. That's the direction I was then facing; perpendicular to my body on the bed. I could see my body, but I had no awareness of having a body as I was experiencing myself during my OBE.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was aware of seeing the entire room and both beds with a curtain in between.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the sound of when cable goes out; that loud sound it makes when the TV is on, but you aren't on any channel.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Curious, and sort of wondering what was next. Not much emotion.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian (born again)

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     As an adult, I have. Some might call it "mother's instinct." But I always know when something life-altering is going to happen. For example, when a friend was killed in a car accident, I heard the announcement of the wreck on the news, and I KNEW it was one of my friends before they said who it was. And when I have strong feelings of danger, or uneasiness, it always turns out to be about something real. Sometimes, I dream about an event before it happens.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part is knowing that when we die, we do have a soul that goes on. I can believe in Christ, but I won't know for sure until I meet him. But I know I have a soul, because my soul, up above my body, clearly saw my own body and my Mom and Dad with me, in another part of the room, over the curtain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have a really close friend; we have always been closer than sisters. Her daughter was expecting a baby and she was wondering when the baby would be born. We had just been talking about a few things, in general, including that. After we hung up, I just KNEW the baby would be 2 weeks late and would arrive on my birthday. I called her and told her. And he did!    Then, one month later, her daughter Hannah had a brain tumor on her brain stem. After surgery, she was comatose for four months. Then she bled out, needing thirty-two units of blood. (All the steroids she had been given while she was in the coma had created bleeding ulcers in her stomach.) The doctors felt it might be time to let her go, as she was still in surgery, bleeding uncontrollably. My friend remembered how I had been right about the date of the baby's birth, and how I was so sure; I had told her over and over. So, she asked me about Hannah; would she be ok, or should they let her go? It came to me strongly that Hannah would be well. I KNEW she would be well and that she would not die at this time. I let my friend know this, and she told the doctors not to stop life support. After about two hours, they began being able to control the bleeding. When the anesthesia from surgery wore off, she stunned everyone by coming out of her coma! She is alive and well today, and has no deficits; all because my friend believed me, and trusted my vision!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No. I just wonder why everyone else sees lights and tunnels, and what I get seems like that grainy view and scratchy noise that's on the TV when it's turned on but it's not tuned to cable.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jackie_nde.html