{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jackie_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jackie G Probable NDE3572","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jackie G Probable NDE3572  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jackie G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1656 Jackie G Probable NDE 3572  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It began with the death of my mother on 31 December 2006, at 06h30. I have now suffered twice from breathing difficulties, because of Diabetes.  My health was never previously bad. Before this, I had excellent health; never even had the flu. These were bad times. All year long, I became ill with bronchitis. I had this for 3 weeks following my mother's funeral. I then got physically better but was really suffering inside. I could not accept her death and, though I got better physically and had never believed much in the paranormal, since she was no longer with me I began to hear things, feel her presence, even her smell. Everyone thought I was hallucinating in the beginning.  But there were many occasions, when third parties observed that I was not lying.  My friends, family and even my own brothers had physical confirmation and began to believe me. All this took place over several months and I was so distracted that I began to eat my meals while walking in the street. In addition to my grief, it was inevitable that my body began to suffer, and I began to feel ill. It began with fever through half my body, up to my head, with stomach pains and headaches, which were horrible. However, I thought it was just the heat, as it is very hot here and very dehydrating. We call it heatstroke. I began to take saline solution and baths to bring my fever down.

Suddenly my fever would leave me then it would come back again. I was like this for 4 days, my face in the mirror looked back at me, ugly, pale, as if my visage were turning to a skull. I would weep, frightening myself, and at this time, I lost my appetite and felt weak going to work. I went on going until one morning I woke up very yellow, and I could not continue. I asked for help and was taken to the doctor where I was diagnosed with Hepatitis A (contracted by eating in the street, unhygienic food, etc.). Because I had neglected myself for 2 months and had become ill, I was treated with medicines, which brought out all the infection, but I suffered horrible pains, as my liver and kidneys were affected and infected; liver inflamed, kidneys infected.  I spent 2 months bedridden, full recovery takes 6 months, with a no-fat diet to avoid damage to liver and kidneys.

It was a strict diet and one can imagine how it affected me. I lost 8 or 10 kilos in 3 days and became very thin.  I am telling this so that you may know my story and understand how things were going at this time. I no longer had the will to live. I thought of dying and wished for it. Anything I did caused me pain. I could not eat anything and I felt worse.  This is pain that I would not wish on anybody.

If it were not for my sister, who did not leave my side, I would not be here giving my account. She did what she could to help me recover a little, to begin to eat, but by then it was already one week gone and I had lost more weight, and had trouble drinking as well. So it was about 15 days in which I hardly ate at all. My sister also had paranormal experiences. She dreamt of our Mama, who told her she would always be with me, caring for me until I recovered, that she would cure me. Everyone saw that I was getting worse though and hope seemed futile. I was the only one of five brothers and sisters who was affected on a physical and emotional level. The others were affected, but I was the one in the worst state.

For the whole week, I stayed indoors in the house, which used to be our mother's, and where only my brother and I now live. I didn't want him to feel alone, and I could not go in a car anywhere; the pain in my kidneys made me bedridden. In these days, I had a strange feeling in my feet; possibly from the fevers, which came and went in my body. I slept without wanting it, fearful that I would not awaken. So it was that night I remember being on the verge of sleep when I saw that I was being watched through the window. Yellow eyes, I do not know what it was, but I went to sleep immediately. Time disappeared and I saw myself in a very peaceful place, breezy and very warm. I could see some very big trees, not of this world, or at least I have never seen anything like them. I did not look at my body, but I had eyes and I heard music like a celebration. I saw deceased people, neighbors and relatives in a place like a wood. But the strangest and nicest feeling was that, while I was there, and I am sure that I was, I had no pain. All I felt was something marvelous invading my body; an indescribable peace and love which has to be experienced, though I would not wish anything bad for anybody.

I had a feeling of 'where am I?', then, 'I know I'm here and I don't want to go back there. I know I have died and my past life means nothing to me.' It is a feeling, which comes to me and covers me; it is lovely. 

I began to see some huts, it was a charming wood, then suddenly I was hovering, and I saw that people were eating. They were all in white with jackets or tunics, I don't recall exactly, and I saw Mama in the distance, chatting, and someone else approaching her. Meanwhile I was being asked by others what I was doing there. I said to them, 'Did you invite me to the party or not?' They said, 'No, you aren't invited.' Then my mother came up and scolded me, saying, 'You are not supposed to be here, it is not your time, and you must go.' I said to her, 'No, I'm happy here,' and, at that, I felt myself tugged from behind.  Everything became dark and suddenly all became confused.  I don't know if it was a vision but I was still there and began to see a sort of puzzle lighting up little by little. I did not know where I was, as I had been at the party, and then little by little everything became clear. All this took about a minute. I was in shock, not recognizing anything, but then I realized that I was in my room and I asked myself, 'How did I get here?'

Then I saw myself stretched on the bed like a corpse, pale, with mouth open. After a minute or so I realized what was going on, and I could not breathe. Then I felt my breath returning, quite strange, I took in air through my mouth and felt a strong pain in the chest. I got up and stayed in this condition for about an hour. No one can explain this, some say that I died and came back, that I was sent back from beyond, given a second chance, and was reborn. After this happened I did not tell anyone about it for months, for fear that they would make fun of me, but beginning from this time people have seen things in the house, objects moving, sometimes forming signs on the floor. Doors open and close, I dream about Mama and, very strange, when I am most peaceful I see a light coming out of my body, I don't know if this is the aura, or my soul; I am not tightly joined to my body, for having returned as it was not my time. I feel more peaceful and like I am a better person, though still with my faults. I wish nothing bad for anyone; it scares me to think that I can see things, have dreams and premonitions, which I have had, I don't want it to be because of this. I used to have them before, but now they come more frequently. I am not crazy, I know it was real, I was there, but these days there is a lamentable lack of faith and we are few; those privileged to feel, if not to see, God, who fills me with such love, which I know I do not deserve. I thank him for allowing me to be with him and for knowing that the body dies and the soul exists in a different place and dimension; that sooner or later I will return there. I will not go there, I will return there, as I have been there already. I want to tell people to have faith.  He still believes that we can change and be better people. God bless them always and fill with light and great peace all those he watches over. Goodbye.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Julio 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Heart attack    Other PARO RESPIRATORIO ESTANDO GRAVE EN MI CASA CAUSADA POR HEPATITIS A TIPO VIRAL YA EN ESTADO MUY DEBIL CON MEDICAMENTOS YA TRATANDOME LA ENFERMEDAD  At the time this happened, I had an interruption of breathing, while in bed. I was in a grave state of mind, very weak and ill.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think right through it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time is lost, minutes seem eternal.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I do not remember this, it seems yes, but I have no clear memory at all of this passage.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     un bosque diferente de este mundo especialmente las plantas nuna he visto iguales parecidas pero no soy de este mundo

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Much peace, love, and tranquility. No pain and I never wanted to come back. I was happy because God filled me with his love. There, you forget all about this life, you are better off there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   CATOLICA

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   CATOLICA

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Help others, speak of God

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I believe that in certain ways people are more attached to me, they listen to me, live with me, and know that I am not a bad person. They have changed their view of me, I feel lucky and spoiled by them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I had premonitory dreams, where 15 days in advance I saw that my uncle would die, in the way, and the place, that it happened

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The love and peace that I experienced.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real; like a real fact which changed my way of seeing life. But not everyone is prepared to believe it, as their minds are still too weak. I am positive facing life, death no longer scares me, since I did it, and did not suffer.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I needed this experience to pay off karma; so that this vision made me improve as a human being. I feel privileged, since not everyone is given the chance to come back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I do not take medicines, as they harm me. I only took them to fight illness during the first and second weeks. I do not even take anything for the flu.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That it is definitely real. There are many worlds, dimensions, which open unknown doors. The world is infinite and magical. One must respect the beliefs of everyone. It is painful that the world does not understand that one must behave well, harm no one, and have love. It is painful to me that perhaps God wants, by way of my words, to bring awareness, so that hate disappears from peoples' souls.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jackie_g_probable_nde.html