{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jack_nde.html","mytitle":"Jack NDE 71","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jack NDE 71  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jack NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1490 Jack NDE 71  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 1963 I was operated on to repair a massive hole in my diaphragm. It had actually disintegrated because I had been cooked internally by microwave radiation for an RADIO FREQUENCY leak in a Radar that I worked on in the Navy. Six and half hours of surgery. Then on the sixth day following the first surgery, the entire incision ruptured and opened with explosive force. Another five and half hours of surgery to repair the damage and I was moved to the intensive care unit for recovery. Instead of waking following the surgery, I found myself looking down on a body lying in bed with all kinds of tubes coming out of it and I could see that the body was already dead. It had already taken on that ashen blue gray pallor of death. I was not at this time aware that it was me that I was looking down on.

I watched the Navy Hospital Corpsman that was on duty in intensive care unit talking to someone on the telephone and he seemed to be having a good time because he was laughing. I saw him turn and discover his new surgical patient had stopped breathing. From that instant I watched and listened to everything that happened from outside of my body.

Then I watched my entire life pass before me. Not from within myself, but from the outside. I saw myself doing everything and anything that I had ever done in my entire life. I saw who I was.  What I was doing, whatever it was, with and in addition to watching this pass before my eyes. I felt all feelings. Not only my own. But I felt the feelings of those that I was with when any event happened. Nothing told me what I did was either right or wrong. I just inherently knew and understood the good and the bad. But no one was pointing a finger of accusation at me for anything that I had ever done.

The next thing that happened was where I seemed to be taken up in the center of a whirlwind. The outside of it seemed to be cloudlike, but it took on a golden or amber glow. Somewhat like fog on a foggy night near the yellow or amber street lights that we used to have here in San Diego.

At the end of this tunnel or whirlwind was the brightest white light that I have ever seen. And as I approached, it took on human form and appeared as a man dressed in a long white robe that had a gold sash around the waist. He had long flowing hair and the light was coming from where the face should have been.

I was shown many things, many of which I was not permitted to bring back with me for some reason. I remember being told that I was dead before my time. Then I was told, 'TELL THEM! TELL THEM! TELL THEM!' three times. I was told that I was but one who would reveal the glory. Then I was told, 'Jack! You must go back. You have not finished your mission on earth.' I was not told what I was to tell them. I was not told what that mission was to be.

With all that, I was returned back through the whirlwind to my body at the hospital. There were people all around my body. The only place that was free was at my feet. My spirit re-entered my body through my toes. My feet hurt for many weeks following that. Every time I would try to walk, they were in severe pain. Especially the toes.

The doctor was going to open my chest and do open heart massage when I opened my eyes and spoke to him and told him I did not want that. He was also going to do a tracheotomy and I told him I did not need or want it. I did not get either procedure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/9/1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         My lungs filled with stomach acid from the surgical aspiration. I had what was described as Aspiration Pneumonia. That was what led to the death experience.  My understanding is that all heart function was completely stopped for at least seventeen minutes that was recorded. No one knows how much longer before I was found to be not breathing with no vital signs.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt as if I was cloud-like at the location of my physical body. The part of me that made the trip through the tunnel or whirlwind as I describe it was of human form, but I am not able to describe the way I seemed to be dressed.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I had not physically woke up following the second surgery. But described exactly what was done as the medical team worked attempting to revive me. The description was one of being able to view the room while dispersed around the top of the room. I was not looking through a single pair of eyes. Also, I described medical equipment in detail that I had never seen in my life. And in particular not from such a vantage point. I was even able to read any labels that were on top of this equipment.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It all seemed to be timeless.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard what sounded like a mighty rushing wind while in the whirlwind.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like being inside of a golden whirlwind where the outside of it was a golden glow through a fog like material. It was totally in motion like I was inside of a tornado.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were in heaven. I believe that I met Jesus. I had died before my time. I was but one who would reveal the Glory. 'TELL THEM! TELL THEM! TELL THEM! Jack! You must go back. You have not finished your mission on earth.'

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was where the face should have normally appeared.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Where I went to was like a Golden city or country. Everything seemed to be sort of translucent where I could actually see deep inside of it. Also, everything was golden no matter what color it was. It was similar to deep gold metallic paint jobs only different. Because I could actually see into the inside of any object. It was like I could see the life inside of whatever I looked at.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Emotions were complete lack of fear. The greatest inner peace I have ever known.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It was like I had become a part of all knowledge and understanding.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was watching myself do all the things I had done with the people that I had done them with. It all started almost at the womb and continued right on until that time. I saw myself at my Christening in a little wooden church in New Waterford, Ohio. I was so small and young that I could not even crawl, let alone walk or talk. I was looking at a huge blue and white banner that was across the sanctuary behind the pulpit only up high. It had two large white birds on it with markings, which I learned said 'God Is Love'. The birds were doves. I attended this church until we moved from that town when I was in fourth grade.  I saw myself with several of my cousins when I was four years old watching the construction of a new road. The earth moving equipment awed me. But what was revealed to me was that I messed my pants because we were gone too long. No one would walk with me because I smelled so bad.   I saw myself crawling on the floor, lifting the cover over an electric outlet, inserting my finger, and getting my first electric shock.  And the memories of life experiences continued to pass before me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware of the decisions. I was not in any way given an opportunity to say either yes or no. I was told it was not my time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I look for the good in all mankind. I stopped being judgmental. I have zero fear of death.  

   After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The method of communication that took place. It was probably similar to what is called mental telepathy, only different. As I would think any thought. The answer was already present with total and complete understanding before the thought was even completed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As God Wills I find myself ministering in the nine Biblical Charismatic or Grace Gifts. But only as God Wills. I have never one single time been given the choice of who receives what where the gifts are concerned. The primary Gift that I see manifest in my life is the Gifts of Healings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was NO PAIN. Total peace. The worst was the UNBELIEF of others concerning what I could not seem to forget.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It is even published on my web site and many people who read it have written back to me and told me that it was instrumental in them being able to come to a belief in God that they had never had before. I also get asked to pray for many people as a result of what is written there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In 1989 as a result of prayer. I had a repeat of the Life Regression experience that I had during the NDE. Except that, it did not stop in 1963, but continued to that day. I had been having nightmares of falling into a dark pit and was ready to hit the bottom, but could not see the bottom. As this vision was ending. I was spiritually falling into that Black Hole. When suddenly the same voice that I remembered from the NDE spoke to me and said. 'Jack! Turn around.'  When I did. There was the same light at the end of the exact same tunnel that I remembered from 1963. Except that it was way, off in the distance this time.  I turned my life around at that instant and started climbing God's Holy Mountain and have never looked back.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was a hundred and one days in the hospital.  I had a fever of one hundred and seven for eleven days before it finally broke.  They would take me from my bed, place me in a bathtub filled with pink alcohol, and then dump in ice to lower my body temperature to eighty-six and back into bed. This was an ongoing routine for eleven days and nights without stopping.  I did not fall asleep for about thirty days following the NDE.  To this day, I only sleep about three or four hours in every twenty-four hours.  I weighed one hundred and sixty-seven pounds when I entered the hospital. My body weight dropped to about seventy-eight pounds before it reversed and I started to gain weight.  When they would take me out of bed, they had to change the sheets every time because they were covered with a gray greasy like dust where my body had been. It was apparently dead cells that were just sloughing off my body.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I do not believe there is any relationship between the NDE and the so called OBE's that are self-induced. I believe this because of the different spiritual source of the experience.  There are spirits in this universe. There is only ONE Spirit of God. Whereas there are many other spirits. One of the Gifts that I have been blessed with is the Discernment of Other Spirits. What I have learned about this would curl your hair. Anyone who seeks such things is asking to spend eternity in a place where they do not want to go.  The OBE is simply an imitation of the real thing. Beyond that, there is no similarity.  Both are of a supernatural nature. But the difference is the spirits that are responsible. I also believe that when one has a Hell-Like NDE that the spirits that are responsible are not the Holy Spirit.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jack_nde.html