{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jack_ketamine.html","mytitle":"Jack Ketamine 22855","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jack Ketamine 22855  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jack Ketamine  					  					  						Home  						Classification Ketamine Experience, OBE  			3364 Jack Ketamine 22855  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					May 24th, 2013 on a full moon, I was with a group of friends at a friend’s apartment and they were doing ketamine.  I snorted some ketamine and was having a good time, when suddenly I was looking at one of my friends and his face began to pixilate and I noticed that what I was seeing was an illusion, that there was more behind the fabric of reality.  I felt a sensation on the right side of my brain and I decided to ride the wave and closed my eyes to meditate.  I had the feeling of coming out of my body out of the back-right of my head and reality ripping away.  I sensed a presence to the rear right of me and I could see a winged creature with a dragon/lion-like face similar to those seen in Asian art and architecture.  It was flying around, coming closer to me in the void I was floating in.  I felt a strong energy and my brain was buzzing on the right side.  It came close to me and landed on the right side of my head. 

Suddenly I felt I was being sucked downwards, and I had the sensation of falling.  I began coming over the crest of a waterfall and falling down, only the waterfall was made of thousands of nooses, turning and twirling around.  I felt afraid, and took a large hit of tobacco to protect me.  I was riding this river of nooses further and further down, with the winged creature still attached to me.  After I hit the tobacco, a large snake with elements of fire took me as the waterfall ended and I watched it swirl down into a void, a black hole, and then there was nothing.  The sensation was over and there was only darkness.  I felt that I had failed to resist the creature and it now had me trapped in this void.  

Later I had another vision of thousands of seeds, then they began falling from the sky, and the sound reverberated off the inside of my skull, sounding like heavy rain on a metal roof.  Then I saw a plant sprout up, shrivel, and die.  This was similar to a flower I saw on television, which grew and died repeatedly as a bright ovular globe spun extremely quickly in the background.  After this seed vision I saw a painted mannequin head that I had made and used in ritual floating in a void with hundreds of green darts shooting out of the top of it.  There was a female present who I believe to be very powerful psychically and possibly evil.  We had sex a few days prior.  We constructed a fort out of pillows and sheets to sit in, with a giant hula hoop at the entrance.  She was sitting in this hoop, began moving her hands around in a magical manner, and playing with a quartz crystal.  I saw her close her eyes and I felt energy come over me, so I closed my eyes and could feel it consuming me, a red fiery energy.  I began to fight it off with my own energy, which is blue.  The red energy was winning, and I averted my energy to become more of a shield, and cast it back, after which the red energy began to wane and I noticed her smug expression change to a wince and she opened her eyes. 

After this whole ordeal, I found myself feeling empty, drained, depressed, suicidal as I had felt before in life.  I had finally begun to ward off these demons and overcome them, feeling happy, clear, and powerful, but suddenly they were back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  5/24/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Snorted ketamine   Sedated on ketamine

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Sedated.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time, and the space seemed infinite, it was a void.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound of the seeds falling from the sky.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a winged beast with a lion/dragon-like face, with an evil and hungry smile; it knew I was afraid and fed on it.  There was also a serpent which I felt protected me from this, but I was still pulled into a void along with the serpent.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     They were all in working order, and I could still feel my body, but with my eyes closed I was seeing into a different realm.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, the presence of an evil hunger, and self-determination.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I feel that the seeds and the plant dying indicate that the crops I have planted this year are going to die.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I believe in spirits

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They offered no helpful advice or insight.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jack_ketamine.html