{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jack_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Jack D Probable NDE 8076","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jack D Probable NDE 8076  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jack D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4207 Jack D Probable NDE 8076  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was four years old, I climbed up the olive tree in my neighbor's yard.  The branch I was on broke and another branch that had been pruned at a sharp angle skewered my neck and ripped it open. If the tear had been three millimeters over, it would have ripped open a main vein in my neck. The neighbor, who was busy pruning the tree, saw the whole thing, picked me up, ran to my parents' house, dropped me onto the front step and rang the bell.  My father just happened to be standing next to the front door.  He opened the door and asked what happened.  The woman said, 'I don't know.  I just found him on the ground like that.'  My mother also came to the door and screamed. My father picked me up and told my mother to drive because we were too far away for an ambulance because there was no clinic near enough at the time. I remember my mother swerving around cars and us coming to a HUGE intersection with the light being red.  My father told my mother to drive through the red light.  We went through and made it out safely on the other side with LOTS of honking. When we got to the hospital, my father ran inside with me.  I can still remember the look of horror on the admitting nurse's face and she directed us to an operating room.  The doctor rushed in the room in his mask and scrubs.  A few seconds after, my father put me onto the operating table.  He brought the light up close to my neck and he must have stuck a needle in my neck or something sharp because I felt something stabbing me. 
 
 I was all of a sudden out. The next thing I know, I am traveling upwards in a tunnel-like on a road with lights opposite of each other at regular intervals.  There was another light that I was traveling towards and I wanted to keep going. The lights that I saw at regular intervals came at me slowly, but for a long period of time.  I say 'period' because time has no meaning there.  I can't explain what 'time' is like there.  After a while, I slowed down and stopped traveling upwards. Then I started to fall backwards until I awoke. I was in a dark hospital ward in a straight- jacket in a crib. There was a huge plastic bubble over it to keep me from climbing out. 
 
 I also had 75 stitches in my four-year-old neck. The nurse came in and yelled at me to go back to sleep but I just kept crying. 
 
  Finally, I did fall back to sleep and I had another experience that I was climbing up through the hospital from floor to floor but instead of using the stairs I was climbing up ladder's until I got to the last floor.  I was not able to open the door because there was a padlock on it.  I knew that that floor was my goal.  I know this sounds somewhat hokey but a huge teddy bear next to the ladder told me that I couldn't go through that door yet but that I would someday.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other: I am not sure.  (This site would not let me click on 'Entirely Pleasant' for my experience.) I fell out of a tree and a sharply pruned branch skewered my neck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was just normal. It wasn't heightened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While traveling upwards

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was as if time were a line in the bathtub filled with water and you were outside of it looking in.  The beginning of time was the bathtub slope and the end of time was down at the drain.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was just a tunnel with two luminescent lights opposite each other at regular intervals.  When I fell back into my body, the lights became two white blurs going in the other direction.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright and pure and it didn't hurt the eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy at traveling towards the light

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I didn't understand it at the time but I think that I have the ability to know when people are getting close to the end of their own lives.  I predicted the deaths of three of my grandparents, my mother's and my father-in-law's.  I think because of the event after waking up in the hospital that I was told that I would live not more than 6 decades because I think that each floor of the hospital that I climbed up represented a decade.  So sometime soon, I will be going home.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   My father is Jewish and my mother was apathetic.  But my Aunt Orpha Klinker had written and illustrated a book for me about loving God.  My mother was to read it to me as soon as I got old enough to understand it.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Messianic Jewish.  I believe in Yeshua (Jesus).

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was four years old.  All I knew was that there was a God and I had been told to love Him.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was told that I used to beat up other kids when I was four and younger.  But after that, I didn't anymore.  At least that is what they tell me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The certainty became innate.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is a life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     I came back to a world that I suddenly saw as mean and vindictive.  I had a mother who couldn't stand me and wanted to have nothing to do with me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Except for my mother, I don't remember what my relationships were like beforehand.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How do you explain to someone who doesn't believe in God that while, you were out that, you were NOT hallucinating and that you know that there is a God in Heaven as certainly as the sky is blue?

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    It was more vivid than other things that I had experienced.  How do I compare something like that?  I didn't see bright colors or anything like that, but it was very real for me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sometimes tell months in advance that somebody is going to die.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember when I started talking about it, but I became shy about telling others because I would be laughed at for it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     How can I explain it?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it happened and I go through life expecting things to happen and not just the people dying but also like a checklist of things happening as if there is some kind of count down, and not just for me, but also for everyone.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I am using Linux Mint and most of the letters run together and are sometimes difficult to read.  Also, some of the buttons I couldn't click on because there were letters on top of them and this hindered me from clicking on them.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jack_d_probable_nde.html