{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1jack_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Jack D NDE 5009","mylang":"de"}
          	        Jack D NDE 5009  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Jack D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2591 Jack D NDE 5009  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on a 'mission' to New York City to buy some heroin and went to my contact's house.  I bought three bags ($10.00 each). I sniffed one bag at his apartment to 'test' it out and was walking down the stairs to leave when the first wave hit me. I thought to myself, 'WOW' this dope is really good, because I was sweating and was really 'high'. So I went and drove back upstate (approximately thirty miles) before I had to pull over and let my friend drive. I sniffed another bag in the back seat and went on a 'nice nod' and soon we were at my house where they dropped me off.  They went home. 

I went to my apartment and told my wife at the time, that I was going to go take a shower, then watch a little TV and I would be in bed in a bit. She looked at me and said, 'You don't look too good, what did you take?' I told her I ate a lot of pain-killers (that was prescribed to me) so she said okay and she went to bed.  In the meantime, I sniffed the last bag, don't ask me why, I don't know, I was really blasted and didn't need it. I did it anyway. I went into the bathroom, took a shower, dried myself off, went into the living room with my hairbrush, and sat down in the recliner to watch TV and brush my hair.

I don't even remember falling asleep but the next thing that happened to me is I'm standing in a corner of the living room, between the china cabinet and the closet, and everything is in black and white like an old movie. However there was my wife sitting on the recliner where I last remember being and there are two paramedics over a naked body (I couldn't see who it was at the time). They were talking to each other and my wife but I couldn't hear what was being said nor could I move from that corner. I was able to see my middle son in my bedroom sitting on my bed bouncing my newborn son in his arms really nervously.  The paramedic (one of them) turned to my wife, held up a syringe in his right hand, and he spoke something to my wife.  She nodded her head as if to say 'yes'. After the paramedic gave the person on the floor the shot, he moved a little to the left and I saw it was me. This 'bugged me out' and I couldn't believe what I was witnessing. The paramedic turned around and grabbed a defibrillator from the side of him and I watched him hit me once with the paddles. At that moment in time, it looked as if I was watching 'snow' on a TV screen.  Then the picture came back and I watched him hit me the second time.  Again, 'the snow' except I was now conscious and was pissed off that they had 'ruined my dream.'

He told me, 'Jack you did too much drugs tonight we need to get you to the hospital very fast or we may loose you again!' I told him 'Oh hell, do whatever you want.' They took me to the hospital. 

While in the hospital, I told my wife what I had witnessed in great detail and I actually saw the hair on the back of her neck 'stand right up'. She then told me the only way that I could have seen that was if I was conscious and observing it. I told her what she was doing, what my son was doing and everything that the paramedics were doing at a time I HAD NO PULSE OR RESPIRATION. 

Later the next day, my son told me that 'God' woke him up and told him that his father is dying, go get your mother and help him. My son was eight years old and always slept like a rock.  He wouldn't get up at 4:00 am for nothing! Yet that morning, he did get up.  I believe that a higher being was allowing me to witness the trauma that my family was going through and what it would do to them if I died. LESSON LEARNED. 

This was the first OBE of two where I witnessed what was going on and two more that were more dream like messages while I was in transit to the hospital.

Thank you for letting me share that with you, the outcome of the first incident changed my lifestyle to this date, the others were due to rapid illness onset while I was asleep.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1994  (1st of 4 )

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Massive Heroin Overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the time that I saw everything in black and white until I was brought back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense curiosity, depression, nervousness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, get my act together and quit messing up my life and my family's life by doing dope.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I could not move from the corner, it was if a large magnetic force was keeping me in that particular corner.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Raised Catholic , Tried other types of religions'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'belief in a higher power / being , energy related beliefs'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just being able to observe what was going on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was after the experience that I shared it with my wife and friend.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because my wife and son said the same thing that had happened that I was 'Allowed' to observe.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it was a sort of 'wake-up call to get back to reality of life and quit using.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think I about covered it all!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that I can't honestly answer!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jack_d_nde.html