{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ivette_gm_nde.html","mytitle":"Ivette GM NDE 4407","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ivette GM NDE 4407  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ivette GM NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2128 Ivette GM NDE 4407  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself in a very long area, quite narrow for me at the beginning, with lots of people in the distance, gray shade silhouettes of different intensities, according to the distance where I perceived them, turning more and more grey, and finally white at the bottom. They were well in line by fours I think.  Behind this entire crowd, there was a huge and very white light, but not blinding and not very vivid yet. Then, it became wider when I 'arrived at the entrance.' I was suddenly plunged into a sensation of great celebration, an intense celebration where there was a huge happiness. It was a celebration for me; I was the star. Everyone was there and looking at me. Everything was pure.

I had the feeling of many colors; as if there were many colorful balloons everywhere, like if everything was color, and soft music, vivid, so beautiful, even though it was not really like the music we know here. I was separated from that huge procession, which was now in front of me and suddenly wider, at about ten meters. The first people at the front were my husband holding my children's shoulders, my daughter on his right, and my son on his left side. They had huge smiles; I felt that everybody was happy for me. When I could see them well, when I perceived their state of mind, their great joy, when they gave me their smiles and all that joy.  I was instantly closer to everybody and was going to meet every one of them.  They were coming to meet me, sliding.

I KNOW that I was busy saying goodbye to each of them. I was hearing my name. The crowd became denser, the light became more vivid, bright, attractive, and did not let me see the number of people who followed; the distant silhouettes that I did not recognize yet became increasingly difficult to distinguish because of the light becoming more intense.

I was getting close to my younger brother when everything suddenly went black and white, without color, the music stopped, as if the buttons were turned off one by one. I perceived that I was called by my name, louder and louder, but not like before, and I saw my husband's face leaning over me. He called me again and I had the feeling to come back into this world again, like if there were no more sound and no more color around us here. I felt a great disappointment to be drawn from this sweet place, from this celebration, this love, this great joy. I was disappointed to find myself anywhere but there.

Around me, the colors were dull, poor; I did not understand immediately what I was doing here, on the floor. I thought I was able to stand up in good shape. I realized that I was going to suffer again, and feel bad again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  19 septembre 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'syncope (probablement malaise vagal) et arrêt respiratoire. 2 jours plus tôt je m'étais blessé le dos en portant des sacs de sable de 40 kgs;j'ai du me relever du lit la nuit (sommier au sol)-douleur insupportable- traverser la chambre,descendre les esca  Other 'syncope (probablement malaise vagal)et arrêt respiratoire. 2 jours plus tôt je m'étais blessé le dos en portant des sacs de sable de 40 kgs;j'ai du me relever du lit la nuit (sommier au sol)-douleur insupportable- traverser la chambre,descendre les escal  Syncope with respiratory arrest and my husband put me on the floor, on my back, when I lost consciousness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I went to meet them all, in this huge love.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I went to meet them all, in this huge love.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed very long, hours and hours. I was amazed at the short time this actually lasted.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the procession on both sides, but also as a whole, and what else did I see? I knew that every person I met in my life was there. Colors were more intense, vibrant, what word could I use?

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was all clearer, more beautiful and pure.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I think so, but it was very short and gray. I did not have the feeling of a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Many people, I knew, at the beginning that I did not know them all, but when I reached them out, I was aware that I knew those toward which I was going to, I knew them, I was conscious of their love for me.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was in the background of what I lived, like a large backdrop, but it was full of life and joy, it was alive and very bright, even when it became more intense, but never blinding, attractive. Anyways, one goes to it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense joy, indescribable joy, pure joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     l have discovered the love for me of all and each of them, but I cannot integrate it into my current life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'je crois.j'étais en recherche dans le christianisme,''ma'' religion à laquelle je ne me sentais plus adhérer..j'ai ''rencontré Dieu'', il s'est manifesté à moi sous forme d'une force d'amour vive dans une expérience impressionnante il y a quelques années.depuis, je le sens  présent près de moi.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'je crois.j'étais en recherche dans le christianisme,''ma'' religion à laquelle je ne me sentais plus adhérer..j'ai ''rencontré Dieu'', il s'est manifesté à moi sous forme d'une force d'amour vive dans une expérience impressionnante il y a quelques années.depuis, je le sens  présent près de moi.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I'm not sure. In the experience, I only lived wonderful things for me, all this love coming from people and from myself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The people I met in the following weeks after this experience got another importance, life has got another importance. I was in a 'search' before this experience, now even more. I know that Love must be first in relationships; I feel it is time to have real relationships, not superficial ones anymore. One must give more time to the others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's difficult to find words to describe it, words are too poor, and do not express enough the intensity and wonder of what I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am not sure. I have, since long time ago some 'feelings', premonitions and contacts with the deceased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am very impressed by the constant love that comes in the experiences of my life, either in my life, or when God revealed coming to me, and I realized He is a Huge Power of Love. I feel it as a pillar of love in height and length, always close to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my husband, my children and their spouses, the day after and the following days. They listened but I don't know if this has influenced them on one way or the other.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had already heard of it, I read some articles and testimonies.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This experience was very real, I could not get back into my everyday life, since this experience became the most importance thing in my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is part of me, it weighs on me, I cannot live normally.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After my return to this life, I was very shaken, I felt unable to resume my life as before, I was in a trance. Nothing seemed to matter. I did not find my place anymore. It is difficult to be as I was before; it is difficult to live 'well.' I need some time to integrate all this and get the best out of it. But there is one thing I am well aware of since then. Here it is: We have no idea on when we will leave this world, and our best hopes and plans are useless on this aspect. One should always be prepared. I used to be very active, always speedy, a 'super-woman' capable of doing many things at the same time. After this experience, I stopped. I have the feeling of getting into contemplation rather than action, I pay attention to the people around me, to my family, but I have not found a balance.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't see any.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ivette_gm_nde.html