{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1israel_nde.html","mytitle":"Israel NDE 17","mylang":"de"}
          	        Israel NDE 17  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Israel NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						10031  Israel NDE  17  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 My first encounter with angels was in mid-summer of 1961 when I was 13-1/2 years old. It happened during my near-death-experience in a public swimming pool in Isr'l. About a year and a half later, on December 1962 I began with my out-of-body travel at will. Coming from scientific, atheistic background and being a student in a marine boarding high school with military discipline, and later serving as a soldier and then as an officer of the Isr'li Defense Force, and as a senior Sea Officer in the Merchant Marine, I didn't dare to disclose my out-of-body communications for many years.


It all started on a hot summer day in the public swimming pool that belonged to my uncle. Having free admission, I was one of the luckiest kids who used to visit the place almost every single day during the hot, humid summer of Isr'l. Being an active teenager and a good diver and swimmer, I had a bet with a professional diver that I could swim under the water three times the width of the pool (about 83 yard) with one breath. The bet was over a pair of flippers. I won...but not before being pronounced clinically dead...


I remember how at some point during that painful struggle under the water the winning suddenly became immaterial. I just hoped that I was still swimming toward the end to touch the side of the pool, but gradually I became totally indifferent. I felt like I was dreaming, while I slowly continued to swim, or at least I thought so while entering into a strange, deep, unconscious sleep. Then, all of a sudden, something amazing happened. I became very alert and refreshed, feeling as if I were vacuumed upward with a great velocity. I was astonished. It all happened so rapidly. I felt like I was flying at an enormous speed through a long and dark pipe that was also soft and secure. It didn't have real sides, but at the end of the pipe I could see a bright light. Next, I found myself out there, in the air, but in a unique position--I was actually floating about twenty feet above the swimming pool. I had no fear of falling down, and couldn't feel my weight at all. Although it was a very hot, humid day, it felt different now, very pleasant. Everything looked brighter but soft. I could see the horizon clearly as if some curtains were lifted. Then, looking down was incredible. I saw my body lying there on the slab near the edge of the pool surrounded by people who kept running from all over, while the lifeguard, a big woman, had started giving me mouth to mouth breathing, and pressing on my chest region. I suddenly could hear their thoughts and feelings.


"Hey guys, nothing happened to me," I screamed happily, but none of them looked in my direction.


After a few seconds, I noticed a huge and powerful being who was floating by my side. He was about nine or ten feet tall. I could feel his enormous, powerful radiation of energy and yet he was not scary at all; more like a big father with a lot of love and care for me. He was shining as if he were illuminated from within. Observing him carefully, I realized that he was made out of light...Then, all of a sudden, he commanded with a loving voice, "You must go back. It is not your time yet. There are many duties you must complete... you will be back here in due time. Now prepare yourself to go back."


I refused, I wanted to stay there. The feeling was so good up in the air, that I couldn't even imagine going down. By now I also became aware of light, soft music. It was a type of soft sound in the air, one which didn't interrupt my ability to listen to that huge being made out of an illuminated cloud which eventually I realized was one of the powerful angels of the Divine.


"You must go down. It is not your time yet." He continued "... you must return to your body."


Suddenly he got serious. Somehow I understood that I really had to go back. I looked down. The lifeguard, was still working hard; now together with a person whom I didn't know. Later on I found out that he was a doctor from a nearby hospital who had come to swim that day. They were applying CPR on my body. I felt their anxiety, especially that of the lifeguard who liked me very much and used to call me "Fish Boy."


Next, looking toward the sun, I noticed the world was filled with a bright light in addition to that of the sunlight. I wanted to see more... but then, in spite of my resistance, I suddenly felt as if I were vacuumed down, falling rapidly back into my body. Soon I was rushed with an ambulance to "Tel Hashomer Hospital" in the City of Ramat Gan for a complete check up.


Getting out of my body was the most important thing I truly wanted to do after that incident. As a young boy, I took the angel's words "... you will be back here in due time" as a promise. Every night I asked for his help to direct me how to get up there. I longed for that experience of floating freely in the air. My wish for freedom and the desire to see the world led me to join a tough marine boarding high school.


For two years I prayed for the help of that angel to help me get out of my body, but nothing happened. Then, one cold evening in December after a long day of school studies and physical training at the marine boarding school, I decided to take a nap while my roommates went out to the school club. I was just about to close my eyes when all of a sudden, in the darkness, I noticed that the room was changing in colors, as if it became full of lights, I kept lying down with my eyes wide opened, witnessing the strange phenomenon. The center of the light grew denser as if a heavy cloud was molded in it. I felt totally paralyzed, glued onto my bed. My heart was pumping fast as I held my breath. Soon a radiation of endless love and joy filled my entire body. The angel was there looking at me.


"Did you come to take me with you?" I asked him.


"No,.. It is not yet your time. You have a lot of work to do here. Your destiny demands much more." He said.


"I came here to fulfill your dream. It is time for you to learn how to get out of your body, in a simple way, using your own will." He continued.


Next, he instructed me step by step how to get ready to leave my body. Suddenly he told me to give him my hand. That night I was especially exhausted, but I carefully followed his instructions and then gave him my hand. It was not the physical hand, I realized soon. It parted from my physical being. All of a sudden, I was completely out of my body, feeling so awake, alert, refreshed and joyful.


That night was the beginning of many nights of adventures and learning from angels in the out-of-body realm. I used to leave my body after the lights went off in the dormitory. Looking down, I saw my roommates sound asleep, including my own body. Of course, I didn't dare mention my out-of-body journeys. I was sure that although I was one of the best students in the marine boarding school, they would throw me out of school if I should mention even a bit of it.


My spiritual learning was done in a telepathic way in a series of lectures with the angel Lamdiel while I was out of my body, floating and absorbing the angel's words. First I had to volunteer to help others. I was only 15 that time, but I did.


The learning included information about other lives in the Universe, the origin of humanity on earth, the inner reality of matter, speeds, energy, and lots of data that highlighted or completely contradicted what I was learning then at my school in science.


But one of the most exciting events was when the angel told me about the future of humanity.


"Today I have a very important message for you." He said.


In a flash, we were high in space. Looking down, a great excitement went through my whole soul. A blue planet was down there.


"Planet Earth!" I cried with joy.


Soaked with feelings of love, I just kept looking down, absorbing the scene into my soul. I will never forget those moments.


The following is a true message given by Lamdiel, Angel of Divine (It is excerpted from "The Ultimate Prophecy - Book One").


"You, the human species on Earth, have come a long way in your evolutionary process and, soon, you are going to enter into a new era in your lives which is the next and the major step in your evolutionary process.


"I have already taught you about the concept of advanced life forms, such as a human being which is, in reality, a compound of life inside life, inside life. Each time a more advanced new life form emerges from the unification of the previous ones. . . let's explore it in more detail. It is important because understanding this concept will help you grasp the destiny of humanity.


".. . You know that a human being is actually a compounded group of lives. It is built of smaller particles, or smaller life forms, which are your body cells. But this is not the end of the story. Your body's cells are also made of smaller particles which are also alive. They aren't considered alive by your scientists. Nevertheless, they have their simpler life forms. You know them as the proteins and amino acids which, again, are made from simpler life forms. They are called by your scientists: molecules. These life forms are arranged in a specific code, creating the proteins and the living cells of your body that, in turn, create the human body. Again, David, this is not the beginning of the compounded life form. These molecules are made from smaller particles as well--the atoms.


"Within the physical level on Earth, the atoms are considered by your scientists as the smallest foundation or the complete basis of all the physical matter. The living aspects of the atom are being ignored, but in a much simpler form, the atoms have their own tiny, living spirits within themselves.


"In reality, the atoms' spirits aren't the beginning of the story. As you remember from the previous lessons, each atom is made of many subatoms 7, which are made from subatoms 6 and so on, all the way down to subatoms 1. Each subatom 1, together with the pure living units in the infinite level, is the basic foundation of matter and life in the Universe.


". . . If you followed the compounded structure of lives inside lives, you probably noticed that a single person is by now, is one of the most advanced complexes of life on Earth. Is it the end of the evolution story?


" . . . A human being on Earth is not the end of the grouping system. The coming step in the evolutionary process is one of the most amazing ones.


"Similar to your body's cells, the entire human population on Earth is going to form the next group as a compound new life. Through unification of all humans on planet Earth, a new giant life form, holding a much bigger spirit within the souls of humans is going to emerge.


"Similar to the energy links between the cells in your body--besides the physical and chemical connections between your cells--there are unseen energy links among all human beings, even between today's enemies. The links which connect each one of you to the others are much stronger than the individual's needs or even the individual's life. Therefore, these unseen energy links affect each and every person on Earth whether one is aware of them or not.


"All over planet Earth, a growing number of humans are in a constant search for meaning in life, for filling a major sensation of spiritual emptiness within the self. The emptiness within people's souls is forcing them to fill it somehow with spiritual or metaphysical activity. This is partly the reason why people are forming, or are devoted to, religions and cults. This emptiness in the human souls is also the factor which will force them to bond to each other further...it is not going to be a physical bonding process like the cells in your body . . . but emotionally, mentally, and spiritually, a fact that will lead to a main evolutionary event on Earth.


". . . Right now, humanity is in the process of bonding more strongly, each human to the others. It is done in unseen ways, but sensitive individuals can sense its effect all over the planet and especially the strong emerging collective super conscious mind, which is going to be much stronger in the near future. Also, the new, growing technology affects humanity much more than you can assume initially. It is going to affect you consciously and subconsciously. Consciously, through the advanced communication and computerized technology, and subconsciously through the growing of unseen radio, TV and other wave transmissions which are actually energy links among all people on Earth, thus creating an enormous netlike energy around the planet Earth, bonding even further all humanity into a single subconscious and super conscious mind. This stage is the prerequisite for the next major evolutionary step.


"... Your planet is alive ... The planet and each of the life forms on it have their own spirits. Earth is in a constant communication with your souls. Your evolution is also the evolution of the planet. The living species on Earth represent its living evolution, but the most advanced life forms on it are human beings. They represent the more advanced functions of the planet, similar to the cells of the nervous system that are the most developed cells in your body--the ones which are the sites of bonding with a higher soul, the human soul.


"This process is similar to the way that the souls of cells united themselves and advanced into the next step of evolution in order to continue and grow as a part of a bigger life form that they had created, which is actually a plant, an animal, or a human.


"Next, the new united or energy bonded humans who are actually the most mentally evolved life forms on planet Earth, will make a further step in the filling of the empty space in their souls. They are going to bond themselves to a much bigger spirit, which is going to bond with all the souls of the people on Earth in a similar way as your own soul bonded itself with the little souls of the nerve cells in your body.


"The new, enormous giant spirit will coordinate all human lives in the new complex of humanity bonded together. . . This spirit will help humanity to evolve farther into higher frontiers in the Universe. It is the real evolutionary step that many planets in the Universe, which have gone through similar evolutionary advancements, are waiting for in order to communicate with you.


"This process might seem strange, but remember how your own body did the same. Your living cells, when you were very young, as an embryo of a few weeks, were craving for a bigger soul--which is your soul--to bond with them, to bring higher life into their lives. They needed your soul in order to help the tiny cells to fulfill their own evolutionary needs. These needs are, in reality, imprinted in each and every subatom and in every living unit of their spirits. Your cells made a major step in the evolutionary process. They bonded with a bigger soul . . . They bonded with your soul in order to create you--a much more advanced life form than each one of them separately. That process enriched the cells' lives tremendously. Their lives completely changed. They became stronger, enlightened, full of love and satisfaction. They became part of a bigger life form with a bigger soul who filled the emptiness in their own tiny souls. They made a major step in the process of evolution that is part of the unification of the entire life in the Universe.


"You, the entire humanity, are going to proceed with it. After the unification process with each other, you humans on Earth are going to make the main evolutionary step, the ultimate one as individual humans--you are going to bond with a greater, enormous spirit."


I was excited. "Who is that giant spirit? I felt as if my heart were racing although I was in my astral body. The angel smiled, then slowly answered my question.


"It is going to be a strong, huge, high intensity spirit from the third level of existence, from the forces level. That spirit is going to bond Himself with all of humanity on the planet Earth.


"It will create a huge new entity--one that will improve your lives tremendously and forever. This huge spirit is quite well known to humanity on Earth. Many people, unknowingly, already are craving to bond with Him. They consciously pray for His help, and love Him. In some part of their subconscious minds all people on Earth already know it. And whether they believe in any established religion or not, in times of great need most humans recognize His existence. They call him: God, Elohim, Yahave, Allah, the Heavenly Father, and many other names."

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1israel_nde.html