{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1isaiah_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Isaiah J NDE 9368","mylang":"de"}
          	        Isaiah J NDE 9368  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Isaiah J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5024 Isaiah J NDE 9368  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On a Monday morning in October of 2019, I was driving to work at about 7:00am.  Another driver crossed lanes and hit my car in a head-on collision. My coworker, who was riding with me, was completely unharmed. I, on the other hand, was very confused of what happened, why I was coughing up blood, and couldn’t breathe. I remember that rain was hitting me in the face and remember how peaceful it was. I wasn’t in any real pain at the time. One of the last things I remember before I lost consciousness again, was my coworker trying to keep my head upright and yelling that the ambulance was coming. 

At that moment, I felt my soul leaving my body. I was looking down at the wreckage and I trying to comprehend what was going on because nothing was making sense. I’m not sure exactly how much time had passed before I saw a funnel form around me. It had a lot of positive energy that I was drawn towards.  I entered the funnel and felt like I was home. 

 I was still seeing myself as if I were still in my body and then everything seemed to dissolve. I realized that my body was just a vessel for my soul that held my consciousness and allowed me to perceive my earthly reality. 

As I kept walking through the tunnel, the warmth and light got stronger.  It was as if, I was being hugged by this energy.  It had so much love for me.  I was completely at peace with myself and the life that I had lived.  I was o.k. with passing on.  I was no longer was scared.   

On the outside of this funnel, it was very hard to see because the light was very bright.  But, I was able to tell those familiar beings were there to welcome me. I suspected that they were friends and family that have passed before.   

  As I kept getting closer to the end of this funnel, I noticed that the source of this energy began to take form.  I believe this was my guardian angel. We did not exchange words, but I knew so much information instantly.  My guardian angel wanted me to return back to my body. I remember that I did not want to return.  The funnel became like a doorway and if I stepped back out, it was very cold. I could start to feel the amount of pain that I was going to be feel coming back to  my body. 
  
When I was looking back out, I could see the medics pulling me from the car. There was an older lady leaning against the ambulance and waving me on to come back down. I realized that nobody else could see her.  I turned back to the source of the energy and noticed that my guardian angel was gone.  Everything else started to kind of vanish. 

All of a sudden, I regained consciousness in the ambulance.  I felt excruciating pain.  When I arrived at the hospital, I was unaware of what was really happening.  I vaguely remember  my family was there saying their goodbyes to me. I could not understand why.  Then I went unconscious again and had a slight feeling from the same energy from the other side of the tunnel.  I realized that there was a reason why I must go through this experience.   

I woke up several hours later in the hospital. I had survived a stage-4 aortic tear and sustained several other severe injuries that I’m currently still dealing with. This experience completely changed my life and gave me a completely new outlook on life. There were many hard things to get over while I was in the hospital, which is a whole other story.

 I’m currently trying to get this story out to be heard and hopefully help people. Hopefully reading my story can ease someone’s mind if they are nervous or scared of death. I have learned it is actually a peaceful and most beautiful thing to happen. I now know we are all connected.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09-07-2019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in a head on collision.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed clearer and I realized that everything this connected in a way and our brain and body is just a filter for us to perceive the reality we live in.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Almost the whole thing the start and end where fuzzy in a way.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I quickly realized time is completely Irrelevant doesn’t have a meaning.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At times it was hard to see because everything was so bright and warm if that makes sense.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Even before the experience, I didn’t hear much. During the experience, I didn’t hear any outside noise.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more like a funnel narrow at the bottom or start and towards the end it widened.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They seemed to be loved ones who passed before me at one point I believed I had seen my dad.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright and warm feeling.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not that I completely entered a mystical realm but I could tell on the other end of this funnel there was.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joyful and I was very relaxed and at peace. It was a very pleasant feeling.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That we are all connected with the universe and our world.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   There was a point that I realized I needed to go back and my time wasn’t up here in this life my guardian angel made me see that.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritual  

What is your religion now?       No comment     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The changes I had are leading me to be the best self I can be I believe there is a greater power in the universe that we are connected to.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I believe I had encountered my guardian angel which was at the source of the light l.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     It was sort of unclear but I do have reason to believe I have encountered some  Sort of life before this one knowing that there is life after death.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It’s hard to explain pretty much just kind of happened. The energy that I experienced made me just realize it.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I’m not sure if it  was a god or a godly power . I believe I encountered my guardian angel or being that helps you cross over I see the universe of being that supreme energy that people experienced.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew it was happing for a reason that I’m on a mission to find out.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I’m Uncertain that’s why I was sent back I believe I’m still trying to figure it out find my purpose here.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     There is definitely life after death in my view I’m just not exactly sure on what form it is.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I knew when I was returning to my body that the hardships I was about to face where going to be for a reason.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There was love everywhere, all around me.  This is the most loved I have ever felt.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have gained a new sense of awareness around me and of the world. I’m more empathetic to others and I genuinely striving to be the best human I can be.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s hard to comprehend what happened.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I’m constantly reminding myself about it because I don’t want to lose any part  Of it it was such a strong feeling that I cannot forget I remember other life events just this one had a more powerful event.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        They are all really meaningful to me the whole thing was very humbling.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I would say before I shared it with loved ones It was a few weeks I wanted it to stay fresh in my mind.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was the most sobering thing I have experienced and I know what I had seen with my own eyes.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has changed my life that otherwise might have not changed or room lol get to change.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I thought the questions where easy to understand and answer just a bit time consuming.       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1isaiah_j_nde.html