{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1isabelle_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Isabelle P NDE 5374","mylang":"de"}
          	        Isabelle P NDE 5374  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Isabelle P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2865 Isabelle P NDE 5374  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had two experiences, one when I was 15, during one of the many surgeries I underwent after a serious traffic accident, and later one when I was 22, when I was giving birth to my daughter.  Both times, I clearly heard the surgeons talking to each other, saying, ‘We are losing her.  It’s over.  We'll never be able to get her back.’  I saw them very clearly and tried to speak to them.  Then I was gone very fast, as if I had been sucked into a very brightly lit corridor, where I seemed to be swimming through a white liquid toward a very intense light that I felt very attracted to.  I just wanted to go there so much.  I felt more and more ‘sucked,’ toward it, but then just as abruptly, I sped backward very fast, away from the light.  I felt shaken in all directions, still with that sucking feeling. In both cases, I awoke very quickly in the hospital recovery room.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '1973,1982'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   With each surgery, it was the last attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the experience's beginning and when I came back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed very short to me, although the surgeries had lasted for several hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw details more clearly and without glasses, although I am very near-sighted.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was very sensitive.  I could hear surgery tools rubbing, the surgeons breathing...

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A very narrow tunnel with blurry looking, but quite solid, walls, which I felt myself bumping against.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright – it was at the far end of the tunnel – white, blinding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared at first, and then, great peace.  The second experience was all peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I gained an improved capacity for listening to others.  I now have a real 'clairvoyant' gift for knowing about the past and the future about which I 'see' images, and colors. I feel people's emotions when they are talking to me, and sometimes I can hardly keep myself from expressing all the thoughts and feelings I'm getting from them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe that on both occurrences, it was not my 'time' to die because I still had things to do.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my first experience with my friends and family.  But when I told them about the second one, they did not believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Like a state of grace, a new opportunity was granted to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I now have to keep fighting against the pain I endure, which is caused by the serious disabilities I suffer from my accident, so I can to listen to problems of others, especially those of my dear ones, and offer them some assistance.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish that more people who are close to their last moment would have this experience. It could bring them, as it has brought me, hope and gratitude for life (though we don't really know what life is.)      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1isabelle_p_nde.html