{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1isabel_rm_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Isabel RM Possible NDE 6920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Isabel RM Possible NDE 6920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Isabel RM Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3476 Isabel RM Possible NDE 6920  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The 17th of November 2011 I went to the operating room for a lipoma [tumor of the fatty tissue] operation in the right armpit, nothing serious, only the risk of any operation with a general anesthesia. Even so, I was having a premonition that something was not going to come out okay. The anesthetist got the wrong file and she started to measure my throat to do a tracheotomy. According to her, I had problems with the tubes in my last operation. She was a beginner and she also was wrong with the guy before me. 

Anyway, I had to go to my family doctor and he sent me to the hospital’s reception to confirm that everything was OK because I was not at ease. At the time of the operation, they sent me to the wrong wing of the hospital because the nurse told me there were not beds available where they had sent me. They hurried me up because they were looking for me for an hour around the hospital, by their own mistake. I handed them the admittance papers where they ask you if you have allergies or what medicines you are taking. I am allergic to penicillin. They poked me three times to insert the tubes. The doctor complained, because according to him, this operation was a matter of 'sthetics. I heard him saying it to someone when I was signing papers. Anyway, the time for the anesthesia came. I saw the face of the anesthetist and thank God, he was not the same as before. 

From then on, there were a lot of people in the operating room: 3 nurses, the door guard, the one that inserted the tubes, the doctor and the anesthetist. It looked like a party. When they administered the anesthesia, I felt my shoulder being touched and a voice tells me ‘Soon you will be here’. 

In that moment, my impulse was to get up; I did and left my body. It gave me time to see the skeletons of the nurses, as when you see an X-ray. All was dark and I started to feel cold with a humid sensation. I even smelled like something dirty. When I sat up I bumped with something that contained metal, it was the noise of metals, as if tripping on a small table that contains metal. I noticed the bump on my leg. The voice told me, ‘This way’. In darkness I went around what I suppose was the operating table. To my amazement, I was not seeing anything, only darkness. 

I saw at the rear, a light, as if far away. I took a step to go to it but it started to move up, down, to both sides. I felt it was going away so I followed this man. I noticed how I got a hold of him, very gently, and I started to go up. I was seeing a light. I was thinking that it is the light of the operating room, the lamp. I wanted to see the operating room but I was not seeing anything. In a moment, I felt myself alone again in the darkness. 

I looked down and I saw a man on a hill waving his arms, signaling to me while saying, ‘eh-h-h, here, down here’. I started to feel fearful. I did not know what to do. He started to come up to me and took me down. Once down, I saw a tree and said, in wonder, in a loud voice, ‘The tree of life’. They showed me an image of the Cabala, as if in a photo. 

At that moment, a man came from behind me. He stared at me with such peace and so much love in his face, with such warmth that I did not fear. It gave me confidence and I stayed there. I was looking at him in wonder because this man had very skin golden, chestnut hair, had clear eyes and was dressed in brown. He was touching like some lights in the tree while turning and smiling again with all that warmth and love. There was a moment that I thought, 'wait, wait, this is real'. While seeing around me, I felt myself really there, I even felt the breeze blowing and I saw how it was moving what looked like wheat. I am not sure, because I was seeing black and white.  But they looked like wheat stalks moving with the wind. He told me again, ‘Soon you'll be here but at this moment, starting now, this is going to be your place; starting now all is going to be okay in a little while, and all is going to come out okay’. 

I asked him mentally about a problem I had and he affirmed with the nod of his head. We sat under the tree, he told me to ‘be ready, many things are going to happen, there are going to be changes, but the changes are for the better’. Mentally he was telling me and I was affirming with my head. I was very worried when seeing like on a movie screen, a hole in the galaxy.  Then I saw a quarter of a big orange celestial body, as if in the corner of a panoramic view. Then suddenly appeared a gray planet as if being pushed by something. It moved, pushed again, and went up in such a way that I saw it pass above my head. It was gray and with craters. I saw the craters perfectly. The next thing that was shown to me was a sunny, apparently normal day, a landscape with the sky, some boulders, and the fields. 

Suddenly I saw a gust of dust coming into the atmosphere at a great speed, in such way that I looked away. Next, I saw the water turned to mud dragging rubble, much rubble. Because of the nervousness of what I had seen, I started to joke and I said, ‘Not bad that I am not going to be there to see it, ha-ha’. Then I got up and stopped abruptly as if gripped by panic: I saw how the earth opened up below my feet in such way that I felt it, felt as if I was falling in the vacuum. 

Then another image was shown.  It was a sunny day in the mountains where there were people dressed in white. I was seeing them from the back. A blond girl with her hair tied up then suddenly I saw other people dressed in white going uphill. They looked as if they had a lot of energy and a lot of light. When I saw them, I raised my hand as if in a sign of victory and much happiness, a euphoric happiness that I have never experienced. I saw the words ‘faith’ and ‘hope’ in big letters: more than seeing them, I felt them. The people with their back to me were gesticulating with their hands, greeting them with happiness, then he tells me: ‘Hurry, somebody is coming: perhaps somebody that you know or that you will know’. 

I looked around me and I saw a small shadow getting closer. I put my head, as if inside something, and saw a little black dog that was asleep.  He opened his eyes and looked at me. The man told me: ‘No, not that. That will be here in a few days’. Then he said, ‘Let's see how you receive it. Start practicing for when you are here’. Then this shadow lay down and I called him Afri, and it did not sound good to me so I called it Coffe: a friend’s female dog that I was taking care of for some days. I thought it was her. I got very happy and I started to run and play with her around there. 

Then I opened my eyes and saw the operating room, but I wanted to continue to be there. I don't know how, but I returned and I saw this man again. I started to think 'this is not real. Disappear'. I said disappear several times and he disappeared but continued talking to me in the darkness. There was not much light, it was as if I was in some part of the cosmos. I was only seeing in color some things. 

He told me, ‘Come, get close. I am going to show you somebody that is going to be here with you.’  I started to walk in the darkness as if looking for his voice and trying to see something and all of a sudden, he showed me a giant poster with lights and the face and the body of this person, because it was the whole size. I was impressed and started to walk backwards until I felt I was falling in the vacuum, falling at an incredible speed, I was feeling the speed in my face when falling. 

Next, I woke up at the operating room. I sat up with an abrupt movement and I started to cry.  

This is my story. I tell it in case I can help somebody with something, to understand or be prepared. Thanks for your time. Before my experience, I was in a very bad shape, very depressed, very alone, without hope before going into the operating room. I had a wish to die there, not to wake up again. I was ready to depart from this world; I wanted to die there: that day. Afterward I have a new faith, renewed, and much hope. I have been investigating if what I saw there, what was shown to me could be true: it all points that way. I am not scientific, but I have spoken with an astrologer from here in Spain and it looks like some wave is coming from the center of the galaxy. There are videos on ‘YouTube’.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  17-11-2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  While under general anesthesia    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I heard the nurses when I was recuperating that I had some attacks, and all that were there could not hold me down. I did not ask the doctors, but I asked my father on 2 occasions and he told me that nothing strange had happened, but he kept looking at me as he was very surprised by the question.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When leaving my body I noticed a bump on my leg with something that had a metal sound. I thought that it could be a little table that was in the operating room that had metal. I have not been able to prove it, because I did not comment to the doctors.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious every moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     He was showing me from above, on a panoramic screen, as if watching it all at the same time, much information from different angles.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was seeing the same, there was not much light where I was, but he showed me the things as on a movie screen, a panoramic vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was hearing the same, because he talked to me with his voice and some other times mentally.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I met with a being, he looked alive, and with the two dogs I saw also.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a small crack with a light among all the darkness. It seemed to be alive. I tried to get close but it started to move up, down and to the sides and started to get away. Later I saw another light, some sort of lamp. I was thinking it was the operating room lamp, but it was impossible because I was not seeing anything, only darkness around.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a feeling of coldness while being in the darkness; awe to see this man, happiness. I felt loved by this man. A bit nervous and a bit of panic on some occasions.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     He showed me something that was going to happen in the future and why it was going to happen. I relate it in my experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Soy cristiana católica por tradiccion pero no practicante,,siempre he creido en Dios

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     The content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs I had at the time. The tree of life is God's work. It is in the Bible. I am much more Christian.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Sigo creyendo en Dios ,ahora aún mas con mi experiencia

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     El árbol de la vida es obra de dios,esta en la biblia

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believed in God forever and now in his son Jesus Christ. I feel myself more Christian. I know that the Apocalypse is going to happen.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw and talked with a man, but I did not ask for his name or who he was.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Vi y hablé con un hombre,pero no le pregunté su nombre ni quien era

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Bueno vi unas mujeres al final vestidas de blanco y unidas en fuerza y luz,si puede ser eso

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Estube en el árbol de la vida,hablando con un hombre al cual no le pregunte su nombre,pero en la biblia se menciona al árbol de la vida,en génesis y apocalypsis

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   He showed me a phenomenon that is going to happen and he said that things were going to happen, that there were changes for the better and that one should be ready.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     supongo que si,que al final todo tiene su recompensa

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     me dijo que ese iba a ser mi lugar,que pronto estaría allí,yo lo entendí que como cuando muera voy a estar alli

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Que solo el amor y el estar en paz importa

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Este hombre me amaba,me lo decía con su sonrisa y sus gestos en la cara,emanaba amor hacia a mi

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am studying the Bible and I take things with more calmness. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I only want people at my side that give me peace and harmony.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Tengo buena memoria y puedo recordar las cosas con claridad

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Before I got lost in things more often, now I get directly to truth. I feel myself more perceptive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience in itself is important to me.  I was by the tree of life, talking to a man, I did not ask his name, but in the Bible the tree of life gets mentioned, in Genesis and Apocalypse.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some friends within days. Within a week to my father and then I told it to a group that dedicates itself to these experiences. To some it seemed wonderful and others looked at me like a strange bug.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had some other experiences when 6 or 7 years old and it did not affect my experience at all. It is very different than the first one.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real from the first moment.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I always knew it was real, not a product of my imagination and with time I have been confirming more that it was thus.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I picked up my dog I named her Africa and shortened to Afri, then I realized that the dog I saw there is her. I had seen videos about the wave of the center of the galaxy, the solar storms.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That only love and being at peace is important. He told me this was going to be my place that soon I would be there. I understood that once I die I'll be there. At the end, I saw some women dressed in white and united in power and light, which could mean a universal unity/oneness. This man loved me. He told me so with his smile and the expression on his face. He emanated love towards me.  That we should be good people and help one another. That the good we do always is going to have its good reward, if not here, over there.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Another question? They are enough already, but yes, I have one: How do you feel physically and emotionally after the experience? It could be a good question.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1isabel_rm_possible_nde.html