{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1isaac_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Isaac L NDE 22019","mylang":"de"}
          	        Isaac L NDE 22019  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Isaac L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1880 Isaac L NDE 22019  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was young.  My mother and I went to visit my uncle near his office complex. The complex had a swimming pool, so I went dressed to swim. I was young and very big-headed. I thought I was a great swimmer, though I had never taken swimming lessons or gone swimming in deep water. I took two floaters into the water and was straddling them as I floated.  My mother and uncle sat on the concrete and talked. I floated, without realizing it, into the deep end of the pool. Suddenly, I slipped between the wet noodles and fell into the water. Being completely inexperienced in swimming, I sunk straight to the bottom and started inhaling water quickly. I saw a light, and started to thrash and walk toward it. I seemed to move unnaturally slowly and fluidly. I thought the light was a light at the edge of the pool, and I was planning to reach it and pull myself up and out of the water. I almost reached it when my uncle's strong arms gripped me and pulled me up. He had jumped in, in his business suit, to save me. When I talked to my mom much later, she said I hadn't moved from where I had fallen in the water - my conclusion is that my spirit left my body and was moving to the next life. Though the experience was about ten years ago, I still remember it vividly.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I didn't look down at myself - I was just walking toward the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very high.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not that I can recall.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a vertical oval of very bright light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Shock and extreme panic at first, as I fell into the water, then calm and focused as I walked toward the light.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Latter-Day Saint (Mormon)

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Latter-Day Saint (Mormon)  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was being saved. The worst part was the panic as I slipped between the foam tubes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The friend I shared it with was interested, as he is highly intrigued by out of body experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think the questionnaire is overly redundant and has way too many questions. 30 questions is too much for any experience. Try to condense your questions and you might get more responses.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1isaac_l_nde.html