{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1irma_nde.html","mytitle":"Irma NDE 7062","mylang":"de"}
          	        Irma NDE 7062  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Irma NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3578 Irma NDE 7062  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					January 3, 2013 I died.  It turns out that I sprained my ankle while walking holding on to Abe's arm, my husband.  We were going to the mall and I had said that I wanted to go pee. While on the floor, Abe tried to get me up but I told him not to do it because the pain in my ankle is so intense that I knew I could not stand up.  A few seconds go by and I feel better, I think I can stand up holding on to Abe.  Next to us, there is a small food stand with some stools, so Abe asks if I can sit there.  I start to get dizzy and ask for water.  There is none, so I ask for alcohol.  They say no again. I ask for some cool juice because I am very dizzy.  Then I lost consciousness. Abe was behind me, so he grabbed me while I was falling so I did not get hurt. 

Suddenly, I am feeling intense pleasure, that I am happy with my parents and my children.  This pleasure is so beautiful, but a strong voice bothers me saying ‘Irma, I am here’. Oh no! It takes me out of my pleasure and I don't like it.  ’Irma, answer me’ and I slowly leave my state to come back to reality. 

I see Abe who is next to me, I was on the floor, he picks me up, he takes me to a bench that surrounds a tree, under the shade, he tells me I was not breathing, that I started to respond to the massage he gave me on my chest like CPR.   Then a woman appeared with some water, alcohol and I tell her I am okay, to give it to my husband who looked very pale.  She gave us some bread. I stand up with my feel wet.  Maybe because the floor had recently been washed I possibly fell on a puddle, I thought.  When I entered the shopping mall and went to the bathroom, I did not feel the need to go anymore; my panties were wet and smelled like urine.  I guess during my fainting I peed.  

That has not happened to me the last couple of times I have fainted. This time I relaxed the sphincter, I relaxed as dead people do.  From that point on, I have noticed that I have some premonitions, sometimes while dreaming.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2 enero 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident. CPR given.  'Incierto, fueron segundos de un desmayo'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'Incierto, fueron segundos de un desmayo'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My hearing was altered; my husband’s voice calling bothered me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I listened to my husband calling me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was crystal clear, very clean: crystalline.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don’t recall listening during the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dad, I saw him.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The light was very pleasant, very clear.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pleasure, security, warmth

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I really did not decide, it was just that my husband’s voice bothered me, he was taking me out of my very pleasurable state.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Hay un lugar donde todos nos reuniremos en el futuro y estaremos felices

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started studying metaphysics.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My deceased father was there, but also my mother and children who were still alive.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     S porque estábamos mis ascendientes, que son mis padres, yo y mi descendientes, que son mis hijos, nadie mas. Digamos que estaba reunido en mi experiencia el origen, de dónde vengo, es decir mis padres , y mi producto, qué dejo, es decir, mis hijos.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Estábamos en comunión, era un momento placentero entre mis padres, mis hijos y yo

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life.  I started to dream or think about signs for events, and these events would happen in a day or two after dreaming about them or thinking about them.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My husband and I see the reality of death, it can happen anytime; we have decided to take advantage of life as much as possible.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started having premonitions, very close together at the beginning; today, a year after it happened, I almost don’t have any, and they have been less frequent.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I became aware of a universal connection which exists, because my ascendants who are my parents and my descendants who are my children and me: we were all there, nobody else.   We could say that my experience reunited my origin, from where I came from, my parents, and my product, my children, who I am leaving here, my kids.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately, I told many people, my husband believed me because he knows I stopped breathing for a few seconds.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   It did not affect me, because what I felt and saw was very personal, (I had learned about NDEs in movies or the news). Interestingly, I used to laugh about it when I talked to my friends about the light tunnel; I told them I had never seen anything like it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don’t know I just know it was like that.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       We were all in communion; it was a pleasurable moment between my parents, my children and me. There is a place where we all are going to meet in the future and we will be happy.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1irma_nde.html