{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1irene_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Irene Z NDE 23112","mylang":"de"}
          	        Irene Z NDE 23112  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Irene Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4129 Irene Z NDE 23112  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the process of having an angioplasty, when I heard myself tell the doctor, 'I don't feel that well.'  All of a sudden, I felt my upper body being flung back like the bed was being laid straight back. Then I was at the ceiling, looking down towards myself on the bed.  The doctor and his two nurses were alongside the bed.  I knew instantly that they were the medical team doing my procedure. I knew it was my body on the bed. The doctor and the staff were standing in what appeared to be a sea of black ink. The colors of their uniforms were outstandingly brilliant.  I felt just wonderful, not frightened in any sense but was stunned at the brilliance of the colors I saw. The next thing I was aware of was waking up in the intensive care unit with the staff asking me if I saw the light, did I see a tunnel, and did I see anyone I knew?  I kept dozing off after asking several times for a cup of tea but falling back to sleep before I could partake.  I imagine it was the medication that I was then given.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related.            During an angioplasty

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I could see my body lying on the bed however, I was also aware that I was floating up at the level of the ceiling.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I FELT QUITE 'AWAKE' HOWEVER I AM ASSUMING MEDICATION WAS GIVEN TO ME AS I BELIEVE MY HEART HAD STOPPED.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt quite awake; however, I am assuming medication was given to me, as I believe my heart had stopped.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Heightened sense of colors

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderment

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Features consistent with your beliefs at the time

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   GREEK ORTHODOX

What is your religion now?       Moderate   GREEK ORTHODOX

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I believe that I experienced something special.  

     After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best was wonderment, nothing negative at all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Friends who were totally mystified

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish it would happen again.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1irene_z_nde.html