{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1irene_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Irene A NDE 2912","mylang":"de"}
          	        Irene A NDE 2912  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Irene A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1231 Irene A NDE 2912  					  				  			    			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I am a doctor, and left the medical school at around four in the afternoon. I was detained on the sidewalk and heard the sound of a car horn behind me.  I turned in time to see an orange car (a type of van) already on top of me.  It hit me on the left side of my body and I flew through the air and bounced with my head (according to later witnesses' reports) on the upper edge of a wall three meters from the ground. I fell to the ground head first, hitting myself again. I felt no pain. I felt dazed, as if I had cotton in my head, and I felt a soft tingling throughout my body.  I thought it curious that nothing hurt.  I didn't understand what had happened. The ideas were becoming mixed up in my head, but in some way, I understood I'd suffered an accident.  Someone picked me up from the ground and carried me, depositing my body on a bench.  I intended to tell them the phone number of my uncle so they could call him but I don't know if they understood me.  I felt that everything vanished around me, as if by 'pulses'.  Finally, everything around me grew dark. 

I ceased feeling my body and saw some figures at my side. One of them was an aunt who had died but I don't know who the other two or three people were.  I then felt that I was 'suctioned' through a sort of tunnel and landed softly.  Everything around was dark.  I sensed that a figure approached, in front of me.  By some method, I received the impression that I was unworthy of being there and I 'closed' that part of my sight, but I was made to raise it.  Then I saw the figure of a man who stood over a sort of stream.  The water seemed to be made of light of liquid neon.  I saw his feet, which were shod in some sort of sandals, and I saw his attire.  All was dazzling in him - he seemed to be made of light.  I felt extremely good in his presence and full of an unconditional, absolute love.  I knew inside of me that he was Jesus Christ (who I didn't believe in) and I was surprised.  I said 'But you don't exist…!'.  He replied 'Live' and his voice sounded warm and sweet, but I didn't want to return.

I didn't remember anything that tied me to this life and I felt absolutely full in his presence.  I saw what looked something like a blanket, which was coming towards me.  What got my attention was that it was of a coarse, rough cloth, rough. It didn't seem soft or full of light. It didn't seem anything of that sort, but when it touched me it was as if I'd been ‘wrapped from inside’.  It filled me with a sensation of protection, love and fullness that I can’t describe.  He repeated 'Live', but this time his voice sounded more authoritative, although it remained loving. I felt at that moment that he 'blew' something through my nose.  It was like a small white cloud, but with palpable substance.  I then felt that I was back inside my body, breathing. 

I remember that I sensed many 'soft small cracks' in my lungs. It was as if during the time I'd not been breathing the pockets (alveoli) had dried up a bit, and at that moment they distended again. I always think of that (although this is not related to my case it's something that always comes to my mind) when I see a newborn baby and it cries.  I feel that I understand the sensation it has of breathing for the first time.

I opened my eyes and I was aware that my shirt was open as I felt fresh air on my chest. Around me, there were many of my classmates, whispering among themselves.  All of a sudden, one of them met my eyes. I was looking at him and he said 'She's alive; let's take her to a hospital'.  They carried me and placed me in a car. 

On the way, I remember that I was saying 'Jesus exists.  I've seen him'. I don't remember their answers.  I knew that nothing was going to happen to me and that I was going to live.  I had a huge hematoma on the side of the head where I had suffered the blow, so much so that I couldn't move my head while I was stretched out. All the left side of my body was black, with a gigantic hematoma. On the other hand, not one of my bones was broken.  I remember with clarity all that occurred from the moment of the blow until I awoke on the bench, although from that moment on I have had several lapses. I had amnesia for two weeks and during the following two months suffered fainting and delirium. I had a severe cerebral concussion.  I had to submit to various computerized axial images (Cat Scans) for five years after the blow to ensure that there were no after-effects.  There have been no physical after-effects, not one.  I 'knew' this was going to be the case. My life changed radically that day.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 19 October 1978  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       Fui arrollada por un coche  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A car hit me and I sustained hard blows to my body and my head.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was as if thought and communication (which were certainly not verbal) was more fluid.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After the blow, when I detached from my body.  Although I was conscious, I noticed that it was difficult to form ideas. It was as if my head was full of cotton.  After everything turned dark, it was as if my body no longer hindered me from thinking.  When I returned to my body I realized that it was hard for me to coordinate, anew, my ideas.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no sensation of space or time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see around me as if it were a little globe. The darkness was profound and the light was an intense white, but did not hurt my vision.  I was surprised by the water, which looked like light, and by the type of white cloud, which had 'body'.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Although I 'heard' the communication, it was not verbal.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I felt that I was suctioned through a tunnel without walls. It seemed to generate itself by a very rapid movement.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Pre-tunnel, there was a family member of mine.  There were also a few others who may also have been family but I wasn't focused on them. I didn't communicate with any of them in any manner.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a light that as it got closer converted into a person.  I knew when I was directly in front of him that he was Jesus Christ, who I didn't believe in. I felt embarrassed.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First of all fear, as I did not know what was happening to me, followed by embarrassment, surprise, love, protection, peace and something indescribable.  Later I did not want to return.  When I returned I felt a mixture of surprise, pain and a sense that it was good that I had returned.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I could have, but I don’t remember with certainty. It’s like having the sensation that it COULD have happened.  I feel that my life changed radically after that.  I can't pin down when exactly, but eternal life eventually came to be my first priority.   I don't take other people's feelings lightly.  I've become very sensitive in the spiritual realm.  Another thing that happened is that from that day forward I started to seek to establish a relationship with Jesus. It took seven years more to find what I knew I started to look for.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I can't be precise. Many times I have a sensation of what is to occur, but I don't dare say.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Era agnóstica, había indagado por mera curiosidad en varias filosofías.  Mi familia era ortodoxa, pero yo tanía serias dudas de la eficacia de la religión.  Bajo mi creencia Cristo había sido, como tantos otros ''profetas'', probablemente un extraterrestre, o algo parecido, que vino y asustó a los ''prehistoricos'' con un mechero.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was seeking the relationship with God that I felt in that moment.  I had the definite certainty that I was without it, and that I should find it.  That special encounter with the Lord produced itself 7 years later.  The difference was that before, I didn’t take it seriously. For me the whole theme of God and the eternal life etc. was a way of exerting power over the people.  I thought that we were energy and that it transformed itself or something like that.  On the other hand, after this experience, the finding of God became the most important part of my life.  I should also say that my form of relationship with God (I am an Evangelist, born-again and never better!) is very different from the rest of my family and environment of that time, which were/was orthodox. I've even been persecuted and criticized for my faith.  I am AFRAID to be apart from God.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Soy creyente evangélica, conciente del significado del Sacrificio de Cristo en la Cruz.  La experiencia que viví cambió radicalmente mi visión del significado de la vida y de las repercusiones de nuestros actos.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was seeking the relationship with God that I felt in that moment.  I had the definite certainty that I was without it, and that I should find it.  That special encounter with the Lord produced itself 7 years later.  The difference was that before, I didn’t take it seriously. For me the whole theme of God and the eternal life etc. was a way of exerting power over the people.  I thought that we were energy and that it transformed itself or something like that.  On the other hand, after this experience, the finding of God became the most important part of my life.  I should also say that my form of relationship with God (I am an Evangelist, born-again and never better!) is very different from the rest of my family and environment of that time, which were/was orthodox. I've even been persecuted and criticized for my faith.  I am AFRAID to be apart from God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As I explained in another question, my vision of life changed radically and I can't pinpoint why. I only know that I began to have a different consciousness from that day forward.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Absolutely. I remember that I was 'out of control', trying to assimilate the idea within the parameters of my life, then I started centering myself bit by bit.  From that day on life has more importance in the eternal than in the present.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Although the experience can be described in words I have the impression that the totality of it can't be transmitted.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't speak of this.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I didn't believe in Christ.  I was surprised to see him and at the beginning, I think that I didn't realize who he was. Later, inside of me, I knew that it was him.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few times.  I think that it impacts upon one to find someone who has been 'on the other side', although almost no-one speaks of it. I don't recall how much time passed between the occurrence and my talking about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was surprised, shaken.  I remember that I was in the car talking to myself with respect to this, telling myself what had happened - that's how impressed I was.   It changed my life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I am certain that I was in front of Christ - that I felt his love, that he commanded me to live and that he blew that something into me through my nose.  Also, I remember with clarity the soft grinding of my lungs.  The rest has diminished a bit, although it remains.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is well formulated, but you did not give the Spanish translation for question 14.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1irene_a_nde.html