{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ira_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Ira P NDE 22141","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ira P NDE 22141  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ira P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2013 Ira P NDE 22141  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This was on the morning of 15 November, 2002. I was fifteen years old at the time. I had woken up to go to school and was in the bathroom. On that particular day, I was still a little sleepy so I fell asleep on the toilet. I don’t know how long I was asleep but I woke up with a jolt thinking I was going to be late for the bus. I stood up real fast and I felt a little dizzy, but I didn’t pay too much attention to it because that’s what happens to everyone. So I was at the basin with my toothbrush in my left hand and the toothpaste in my right hand getting ready to brush my teeth and then everything just went blank. The next thing I remember was standing near the door and looking down at my body on the floor. That sight freaked me out so much. Then I (the one on the floor) remember looking at the fan on the ceiling and wondering, ‘That’s weird. Why am I looking at the fan?’ My eyes were shut the whole time, so there was no way I could have seen that. At that moment, I came back to my conscious self and opened my eyes, and I was actually on the floor and looking at the fan! I was shaking so hard because I was so scared. I ran out of the bathroom and told my parents what happened but they too didn’t understand why or what had happened. All I wanted was answers and I’m still looking for them. The one thing I want to know is how long I was unconscious for because I had no clue what time it was. It felt like the dimension of time ceased to exist. My father has been into hypnosis for a few years now and I’m on my way to do the level one course myself. And I will definitely go under hypnosis to answer all my questions and find out if anything else happened that day that I don’t remember. The experience has given me a different outlook on the whole concept of the soul and the sub-conscious mind. It’s a lot more relatable to me now when I talk about hypnosis and the different levels of the mind, and reincarnation too. I still get goose bumps every time I think of it or narrate it to somebody but I’m thankful that I got to experience something so huge so early on since not everyone has such a story to tell!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  15 NOVEMBER 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The dimension of time seemed to vanish.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't think so.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared and confused.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I think my soul seeing my body like that prompted it to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in hypnosis, reincarnation, and different states of mind now.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They were amazed that such a thing had happened. Not a lot of people believe it until they meet someone who has, or until they have such an experience themselves.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ira_p_nde.html