{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ina_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Ina P NDE 3341","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ina P NDE 3341  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ina P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1236 Ina P NDE 3341  					  				  			      			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was scared at first everything around me faded to darkness. I heard a voice - I was told while I was out of it I kept repeating 'Dolly.' I was following the voice and it lead me to a cliff, all I could see was a little needle of light but the ledge was sharp. I got scared but the voice commanded me to follow saying it would be okay. I fell off the cliff and felt like I was being wrapped in warm, peaceful blanket. While going through this light, peace surrounds you and all anger, hatred, emotions leave until only peace exists. I kept falling going deeper into the light. When I finally hit I was at awe with it - so beautiful; a golden gate so much peace. I had my left hand on a golden gate and I slowly open it. I had my right foot across. All of a sudden, I heard my mom. Half way across the gate, with my left foot in the air, I turned away and I saw darkness, then light, then my body below. My mom was crying begging me to come back yelling, 'Ina no!' Then she hit me.

After that, I woke up and tried to find out why I was in the hospital. My mom told me my heart and lungs stopped - I was going through total body shutdown and my mind was still running. I was under for almost five minutes. They told her I was going to be gone. My face was white and lips were blue the whole time. My body felt like ice. They kept me in the hospital for a week but never found out what caused it so they said a high fever. That's all they had. That's all I know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Don't recall

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Unknown They say a fever seizure but was not exactly sure if that is what spiked it.  Other 'My brain was the only part of me still going. My heart stopped and lungs. I was going to get tagged for the morgue, if it was not for my mom hitting me on the chest.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was at the gate I could feel the peace surround me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was at the gate I could feel the peace surround me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed slower.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness calmed you and warmed you and emptied any feeling you had to make you at peace.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    You could hear the others talking but it didn't bother you because you were in a comfy cozy place where only peace, harmony and warmth was allowed there - any emotions or thoughts abandon you.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel of darkness everywhere no walls just a pin of light till you get through.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I could hear them telling me I would be okay to follow.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I described above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A beautiful gate and just past it a beautiful water fall which eluminates you.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared at first but then a peaceful relaxing warmth started to unfold itself.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I could remember things from when I was three and still do but the time of the incident I can't remember past that.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I get deja vu some times and sometimes messages in the dreams I am reenacting what is going on or I see things that later on I see again, people, places, things.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was half way across and I could feel changes, peace, harmony, joy, laughter, it is like a drug and when you refuse it, it makes you want to go back even more because you know it is there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None I believe there is a god and he is real.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe he is real and you will see, trust me, you will see.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'None. Believe in your heart you will find him, search with your mind you will see him.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe he is real and you will see, trust me, you will see.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   You could feel the presence of peace and happiness; nothing bothered you, as I said.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am closer to people I love most times I can finish their sentences or know what they are going to say beforehand at times.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I know things but I am certain of this when I stood in front of the gate if I passed it I would not have been back but I would have been in peace and I could sense God there in a way after my mom yelled. I heard you can go or stay, chose, but if you go tell your story. I was scared people would call me crazy, especially since my mom was so scared she still to this day won't talk about it no more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was significant it was like following your guardian and being lead to the perfect peaceful place everything is fine no pain nothing but peace joy harmony.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most did not believe it but my mom knew I could recall what she did and it scared her.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I keep feeling like I got to get back there but at the same time that my work or what I have to do has not been done yet. For some reason I know this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Every time I was close to death I was not allowed to die.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       He is real he may not always give you the answers you seek sometimes it seems he's not listening but he is there. If you listen with your hearts and your minds he will guide you but you have to have patience because he knows everything and when it seems to be a miracle it is because he heard you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Could you feel God's presence with you? My answer is yes when I felt the peace overcome me I knew he was there joy filled me and laughter.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ina_p_nde.html