{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ilxa_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Ilxa L NDE 23179","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ilxa L NDE 23179  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ilxa L NDE 23179  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4272 Ilxa L NDE 23179  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am now 18 years old.  At the time of the accident, I was about 11 or 12 years old.  The accident occurred quickly in a two-story house that I use to live in. I remember being upstairs with my siblings; three of us including myself. My brother was in my sister's room and they were playing a game.  I was probably in my room doing something else not being included in whatever it was that they were playing. I remember coming into my sister's room with them.  As I approached my brother from behind who was kneeling down, he suddenly stood up without knowing I was behind him.  His head hit my two front teeth and began to bleed. We rushed to the bathroom on the same floor.  My sister and I tried to stop the blood, but to my surprise, it was so much blood and it wouldn't stop bleeding.  So, I called my mom. I rushed out of the bathroom and I looked down from the second floor to the first floor where my mom was watching TV. We all went to the downstairs bathroom.  My mom was cleaning my brother's head and trying to stop the bleeding while my sister and I were watching.

   I started to feel very light-headed.  I fainted and fell on the floor. I start to convulse and my mom tried to wake me up. Throughout this all, I remember seeing what had happened.  It replayed in my head like it was a movie, except I wasn't myself.  I was someone else and was watching myself help my brother with his head.  I rushed out of the bathroom to call my mom for help. I remember seeing myself call my mother, but from downstairs in the kitchen. I saw everything but it seemed like I was seeing from someone else's perspective. 

  Afterwards, I got up still feeling light-headed. I never had something like this happen to me again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  I had an accident

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I was aware of where I was and what had happend.  I was even aware that I had passed out.  I tried to get up, but felt so dizzy and light headed that my body wouldn't let me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    NO

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt scared and confused

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal            

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was seeing the accident happen from another perspective.  It was amazing.  The worst was not being able to control it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes.    They thought I was dreaming.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       To this day, I am not sure what happened or why it di so hopefully sharing my story will answer many questions.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ilxa_l_nde.html