{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1iain_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Iain T NDE 9495","mylang":"de"}
          	        Iain T NDE 9495  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Iain T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5107 Iain T NDE 9495  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    On Sunday, July 17, 2022, I was out and about with my bearded-dragon lizard, Lemmy. We were walking through the drainage tunnels as a shortcut to our destination. We were resting in an open part of the wash situated directly behind the runways of North Las Vegas Airport. I was sitting back watching the small planes takeoff and land.  My little buddy was sitting a few feet away sunbathing.  I was taking a long awaited drink from my water bottle as I watched a small, single-engine Cessna making a right turn in my direction and preparing to land.  I watched another small plane descending behind it. At least it appeared that way, from my vantage point. I expected the planes to pass directly overhead of me to land.  But, to my horror, I watch as the planes collide midair about 50 feet above me. 

  I scramble to my feet, grabbed Lemmy, and sprinted towards the steep driveway-like slopes of the storm drain.  When I heard the deafening sound of an explosion, I was thrown forward with tremendous force while pelted by small pieces of shrapnel. I went unconscious as I hit the ground. 

  When I regained consciousness, I saw nothing but a dark tunnel.  I thought I imagined the whole incident, and looked around for Lemmy.  But he wasn't there. I freaked out and ran towards the end of the tunnel. I was blinded by an intensely, bright light.  Then, I found myself in  different location.  I was a grassy oasis-type of place.    

  This confused me as I was greeted by a strange, robed figure who led me down a path to a field.  Numerous people were sitting there.  I recognized my grandmother, great aunt, and a close family friend.  All of them had died when I was younger. I ask the robed figure, "Who are you?" Instead of getting an answer, everyone else was asking me what I was doing there so early.  I replied, "I don't know."  I relayed the story that there was a crash, I passed out, and woke up somewhere else without Lemmy.  I asked if they had seen him and demanded that I get to him. The robed man placed one hand on my forehead and everything became blurry and dark.

  I open my eyes.  This time, I found myself on the ground and in a lot of pain.  As I stood up, I saw the burning wreckage of the small Cessna about 20 feet away from me.  The pungent smell of burning flesh and metal was very strong.  I frantically looked around for Lemmy and found him a few feet away from me.  I picked him up and dialed 911.  I explaining the situation while cautiously inching closer to the burning wreckage.  I wanted to see if anyone had managed to survive.  It was so horrible that although it will forever be ingrained in my memory, some things are just better left un-shared.   I suffering a broken knee and a fractured wrist.  Lemmy suffering a broken forelimb and a spinal displacement.  We spent a day in the hospital.  The nurses were so nice to me and little Lemmy. They even made him his own little splint for his arm. In the end we were okay. 

  I wish I could say the same for everyone else, but the air collision resulted in 4 fatalities. I was met by journalists for an interview but I declined due to the severe aftershock.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 17 2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I felt as though I was more awake and observant than normal.  I also had a strange feeling of limitlessness.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I had passed out, I felt  more conscious than ever before.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time didn't feel as though it mattered or even existed.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have very bad eyesight. Without my glasses, I cannot see a thing. During this experience, I could not only see more clearly without my glasses,but everything appeared bioluminescent  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing has always been impeccable so that was the only thing that didn't seem out of the ordinary.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     Although it was very dark, I could see I was in some sort of tunnel because  everything around me was bioluminescent.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, my great aunt, our first family dog, and a close family friend.  
  
Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes.   It was sudden and started small but grew rapidly.  The immensely bright light  wasn't like anything I've ever seen before.  
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     It felt as though I wasn't on earth. I wasn't breathing. All the colors of the landscape around me were not colors you'd see on earth.  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I had an eExtreme feeling of confusion but was strangely content with where I was. But when I was reminded of Lemmy, I became very distraught.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  My bearded dragon Lemmy,  means everything to me. He's been by my side ever since I watched him hatch. He's like a son to me and I can't imagine a day that goes by without him. I think that when I became distressed about Lemmy's whereabouts, I believe I was sent back. The more I think about it, the more grateful I become that I came back for  my son, Lemmy.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It wasn't what I expected at all  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I couldn't see his face as it was just a bright glow where his face should be, but I could tell it was a Male because it sounded masculine. Yet the voice was very soft and slow  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain.   I am uncertain who I saw other that a few deceased relatives who among hundreds of other people there.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There is some connection because I wasn't on this earth. 
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The robed figure of whom I encountered  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain.     It leads me to believe that something really does occur after we die.  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?              

  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes. Me and Lemmy are even closer than before.  
  
After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was such a strange experience because of how real it felt. At the same time, I couldn't feel anything at all,  like I was just a spectator.  
  
  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember it as if it happened yesterday  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The ability to predict perilous situations before they occur,  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am uncertain  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.      It's as if I was taken out of existence and then brought back here.   I have had several visions and  dreams of the same robed figure.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It has only been a little over 4 months since it happened.  I still feel the same as I did shortly after the experience happened.  
  
  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain.   I sm unsure of what the question means  
  
     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1iain_t_nde.html