{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hyacinth_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Hyacinth Probable NDE 6976","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hyacinth Probable NDE 6976  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hyacinth Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3509 Hyacinth Probable NDE 6976  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I live in constant pain. As part of my pain regimen, I'm allowed four Tylenol a day. Well, I took 10. When they took me to the hospital, I was already developing jaundice and I was confused. At first, they thought I just was having a hypoglycemic reaction and they gave me some juice to drink: big mistake, my liver had shut down. I don't really remember that part of it, but my mom says I died that day, that she saw me. Within about 20 minutes, I had died and they were transferring me from the Modesto hospital to the UCSF hospital in San Francisco for a liver transplant. During this time my liver completely shut down, my kidneys were operating at only 15%. By the time I got to the hospital in San Francisco, all my internal organs had shut down and my brain was starting to swell. They told my mom to plan my funeral. 

I remember the first person I saw was my step-grandfather who had died just a day before. I remember thinking ‘what are you doing here?’ He just smiled and told me to ‘come along.’ I don't remember a tunnel or anything, we just walked a bit, all of the sudden I saw a lot of people running around, doing things, and they were very happy. I saw bowls of fire. People were putting their hands in them and they were not burning. I saw angels. I can't really remember much about them, but they were there. I do remember ‘happy crosses.’ There were crosses dancing in the landscape, they were happy. I tried to take in all of this. No one was really talking to me.

All of the sudden, I saw Jesus. He was wearing black jeans with holes in them and a black T-shirt (my mother would say later when I told her about this, that she was happy Jesus had updated his wardrobe!). I sat there next to him and we talked about my life. He asked me if I wanted to go back. I told him ‘not especially’. He then lovingly, and patiently told me that I needed to go back to take care of my mother. Then I felt a tug on my hand and I woke up from the coma. My mom was holding my hand. I felt totally at peace. Everything in heaven was extremely clear. I saw other relatives: my grandmother and my grandfather. They were busy and laughing. The colors in heaven were like they were on steroids.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/1/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had an accidental overdose of Tylenol. It shut down my liver (completely), my kidneys, I developed ARDS [Acute respiratory distress syndrome.]. I was in a coma; only because I was hooked up to life support I lived. My mother says she saw me die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I didn't see my body or anything on earth. It was like I was in a different place and I had no reason to look back.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to Jesus. It was like I understood everything at the same time. Jesus and I didn't talk like people talk here: we just kind of looked at each other. No words were needed, but they were heard. Jesus was kind and patient; the love I felt was overwhelming.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. It was just being.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear glasses on earth. Everything in heaven is more vivid, clearer: like a window just washed.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything at once and separately. It's like being in a crowd and hearing different conversations at the same time but being able to hear all of them distinctly and understand them all at the same time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my step-grandfather who died the day before. I saw my maternal grandmother and my paternal grandfather.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Everything was like a white light: a pure light. The light emanated from God.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Described above.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme happiness, confusion, I didn't understand what was happening. I never got the idea that I was dead because I was so alive. I was amazed at what was happening.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Jesus explained that I needed to return to take care of my mom. Then it was instantaneous! I was back in my body and I opened my eyes after 10 days of being in a coma and not expected to live.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was raised a Christian and have always believed in God, but I've had doubts too especially since I have had a hard life--I was gang raped when I was 13 and I broke my back with a rare disease when I was 17. I live in constant pain.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray more. I crave that talk with God. I have started attending church again because I want to know more. I am closer with God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in God, but because of my life experiences I sometimes doubted his existence.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't doubt anymore.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I talked to Jesus. I knew him and he knew me. I was not afraid.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw and talked with Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I talked to him!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My purpose is to take care of my mom.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To love each other, to take care of each other.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     By the mere presence of people I know who died, I could tell there was continued existence after earthly life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Jesus gave me the reason I couldn't die just then. It seems my mom is going to need help and I am here to give it.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I know Jesus and I talked about some of the things that have happened in my life, but I can't recall them now.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Jesus loves me. He cares for me. He loves the people I love. He wants us all to love one another. He didn't have to say it, he showed it. He exuded it. I felt very loved and wanted.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I suffered for 8 years from seizures before this happened. To date: 5 months later, I've only had one seizure since the experience. I am driving again, something I couldn't do before this happened. I have started attending church again. My faith is stronger. I am more confident. I know I have a purpose in this life, humble though it may be. I know when I die I will be with Jesus and the people I love. This is just a blip in time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I've gotten closer to my mom.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's impossible to put into words. We don't have words for the experience in the English language. If you take the words I wrote and add the sights and sounds that I experienced, they would be pale. It's like I can only write a shadow of what happened.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   As time goes on, the experience dims.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     The seizures have stopped.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Speaking to Jesus.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom about it when I woke up. She was pleased and believed me. She helped me write them down and understand them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard about it, but my dad always said that they could be explained by neurons misfiring at the time of death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because it happened. I was there. No one can tell me differently.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nope!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hyacinth_probable_nde.html