{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hugo_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Hugo R NDE 9710","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hugo R NDE 9710  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hugo R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5242 Hugo R NDE 9710  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was run over by a car and I knew I was going to die.   

  I saw my life in a second and then I was back in my body. It’s now difficult for me to remember many details.  But the experience opened me up to this current state of spiritualism and the belief that there is much more after death. Above  all, I understand that spiritual world which is difficult for us to understand here on earth.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2007  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I observed everything that existed while my consciousness floated.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The connection was pure and devoid of feelings and pain.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before dying; one or two seconds before the moment of death.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I saw my whole life second by second. Yet, it seemed like it all happened in one second.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Altered  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Altered  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A little bit fearful, but calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.      I observed life and creation from another perspective.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   When I regained consciousness, I said, 'From now on, I will believe more in God.'  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

What is your religion now?       No comment     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Detachment.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Belief in everything.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I know this, although I don't know how.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     When I came back and spoke, I knew that God was in everything that had happened.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   It happened afterwards, until now.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     It happened afterwards, until now.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The detachment from the body and the journey through space.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Afterwards an expansive vision came.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     It happened afterwards, until now.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     This continues until now.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I relate less by the way I see things.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s difficult or impossible to explain.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  The more time that  passes, the fewer details I remember.  That is why have I stopped talking about it.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Four days.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The scars are a constant reminder of what happened.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hugo_r_nde.html