{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hugo_hsr_nde.html","mytitle":"Hugo HSR NDE 6899","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hugo HSR NDE 6899  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hugo HSR NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3463 Hugo HSR NDE 6899  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Well, my name is Hugo, I live in Recife. Like any weekday, I was coming back from my technical assistance job, to take my wife to college; I was in a hurry so I sped up my bike. There were some bikers behind me, going in the same direction. Suddenly there was a car turning left, I was driving about 62 mph, I hit the car and I blacked out from this reality.  

I saw a blue light extending to the horizon. I asked myself 'Am I in heaven?' That light stayed still for a fraction of a second, I thought 'Am I dead?' In a scale from 0 to 100 with 100 as the maximum distance of that scale, the light was at '70' away from me.  It was as if the light approaches only if you do everything that the bible says you cannot do. The light appeared in the same way people describe about the tunnel.  I thought to myself, in my awareness, and without my conscious thought. 

I saw a man and a woman on his left side, both holding a candle.  He held the candle with his right hand and she held the candle with her left hand, both sharing the same candle.  At that scale distance of '70' I let out the words, 'Hey, I died'. In a fraction of a second, it was like he had stepped into my mind to control me and to take me to only God knows where. I heard my wife's voice yelling, so I thought, 'My sweetie' and I returned to our physical world. 

A few months later, I had to travel to Fortaleza, over 600 miles away from my hometown. When I was returning, I fell asleep and a voice from GOD whispered at my ear 'Open your eyes.' I realized that I was sleeping, riding my bike over 70mph. I saw that I was on the wrong side of the road, facing a truck, and unbelievably I returned to my lane and arrived safely at my home. 

OBEs: 

On 13th of May of 2011, a few days after the chicken ritual, I woke up and came across with a different view of the universe.  It was as if I was listening the thoughts of people and I can physically prove that.  For instance, when I'm watching a local TV program, the host talks to me in an incredible way, but not talking, only through thoughts.  Then I think 'Blink your eyes' and he blinks! 

You know that they say the world is going to end facing the fact it occurred on May 13, 2011, Thoughts Day. I read rumors that the existence of mankind depends on how the human being will be physically secure to continue his existence, how???  I believe in a form of nutrition. It is curious that I am a technician of safety at work.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  'Foi durante o impacto do acidente eu apaguei durante um tempo. Other: 'Foi durante o impacto do acidente eu apaguei durante um tempo. Obs:eu estava com a minha mulher na garupa da moto e tinha um notebook entre eu e ela no impacto acredito que a vertebra da coluna se descolou devido o notebook esta no meio de nois.'  In the moment of the accident I blacked out, after the experience I returned to my body a little bit distressed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As if 2 seconds here were 10 seconds there, you know?

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is no comparison. I ask for help.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No perception.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel without end, and in the distance it seems to be a blue light calling you for the good, but when you accept death it controls you through your eyes. When they are near you the tunnel becomes a sparkling red.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An evil light. Don't accept death!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The couple was dressed with antiquated long robes (not old).

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Fear.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My wife's voice yelling: so I realized the bike was on the ground and desperately I tried to take it from above me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Após o acidente,para tentar melhorar as coisas,  eu resolvi ir em um macumbeiro chamado half e ele me revelou que eu era de alguma forma pra esta lá mais não sei se e pro bem ou pro mal.dai eu fiz um ritual com galinha  lá.E em 2011 exatamente 13 de maio de 2011(dia do pensamento)da mesma forma que nos em experiência pôs morte não podemos pensar que morremos, se não acredito eu que a única chance de que essa luz não nos a proxime e exatamente o que tem na bíblia tudo esta escrito.  Diante disso se vc estiver no túnel e pensar em qualquer estudo por exemplo álgebra. Essa luz se distancia de vc e vc estará seguro.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A couple that wants you for an unusual world. Do not accept death.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   Ta louco sem chance nesse reino.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Lógico que deus existe e que Jesus ele é tão lindo quanto foto.  Graças a deus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am afraid of the other side. That mankind is in constant progress and any fault in developing the nation will carry a disastrous event.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Todas as pessoas tem o seu legado para deixar na terra como fruto de sua aprendizagem escrito a os olhos de todos, para que todos os outros tenham acesso.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Tenho medo do outro lado.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I know we only die if our body breaks down. I know that cancer can be cured only with food, it is necessary to renew the blood in the body daily through food and therefore keeping the body without injuries and damages, so the body will last, let's say, for 500 years. No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        They seek you as if they were a good spirit, but they are not, because when they arrive near you they assume a shape that is frightening.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I came back I told my wife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Of course God exists and Jesus is as beautiful as in pictures. Thank God.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Excellent questionnaire, meets what has happened. But it should ask if the person saw any couple.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hugo_hsr_nde.html