{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1howardena_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Howardena P NDE 2995","mylang":"de"}
          	        Howardena P NDE 2995  		  		  		  		  		      		                      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Howardena P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1061  Howardena P NDE  2995  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  A car accident. A woman (an ex-nun) was on back medication, drove against her light crossing the medium strip into oncoming traffic, and hit us obliquely on the driver's side I had a head injury, a neck injury and hip back injury resulting in one leg being higher than the other is. I was in the back seat of a VW Beetle turned sideways trying to sleep. My department head was driving and there was someone else in the front seat where I usually would ride. No one died, but the others were injured. I was in the hospital for two weeks. I was unconscious according to the others and became conscious lying on a stretcher in the ambulance. Before it happened I heard a female voice or voices in my head that said, 'It is almost time,' and I remember putting my head down to sleep. I had not heard voices before this (except maybe once I heard someone call my name years before that. After I arrived at emergency, I could not sit up, I had a dent in my head (a concussion) and I could not read a newspaper or a watch. I could not figure out what the symbols meant. I could read again a watch after about three or four days.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 1979  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   A car accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was falling asleep just before the other car hit so had a concussion. I was alert during the experience but alert in the other space. I have no memory of the accident or aftermath. I woke to full consciousness in the ambulance lying down on the stretcher. I was aware of pain when I woke up. My head was the source of the pain.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   A void where there was no sense of direction and no sense of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound in the darkness, but when I experienced being outside of the car I believe I heard myself say, 'What happened? Was there an accident?' Or just, 'What happened?'  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw light when I experienced being outside of the car and darkness, pitch black darkness in the void.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Bardo or a void. I was told later that Bardo is a Buddhist form of purrgatory where suicides go . I was not and never was an attamped suicide. I was just a passenger in the back seat of a car.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No fear. Alert and curious.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was interested in Buddhism at the time. I was raised as a Presbyterian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am constantly torn about the question is there a God or is there not a God and also what religions are closest to the truth. I am now more like an atheist believing in ethical behavior. But I am not more psychic and this seemed to happen with menopause.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I am not a member of any church and am spiritual rather than religious, however I say a rosary although I am not Catholic.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am constantly torn about the question is there a God or is there not a God and also what religions are closest to the truth. I am now more like an atheist believing in ethical behavior. But I am not more psychic and this seemed to happen with menopause.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to believe by others as I saw myself or felt I was walking around outside of the car, but also experienced being highly conscious in a dark void, but I was not afraid. Although it was dark, I felt I could see. There was no up, down or sideways - no sense of direction. I was alone; apparently the Buddhists call this the Bardo.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started to feel I could hear things, but it was like listening to a radio hearing someone else's conversation. I also became more emotional and annoyed at things. I was more jumpy and unnerved. Had nightmares where I would wake up and would be unable to move for what felt like a long time. I had trouble walking, used a cane, and had trouble keeping my balance under fluorescent light. It hurt or was very uncomfortable to walk under florescent light.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am very scared to die as the Bardo, a dark space, is not where I want to end up. I am very fearful now of being among the five percent who have hellish NDE's.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember clearly as a result of the accident I had memory problems because of the head injury. People just listened I guess, but did not react.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had had surgery in 1975 and had had an experience under anesthesia that I was under a tree sitting with a figure of light who was standing and wore a white or light robe that covered its head, but I could not see its face and could not tell if it was a man or a woman. He/she was very tall and I was reviewing another life as a house wife in Australia as if I was living this life at the same time. It was very strange the concept of living two lives at the same time. The scene was well lit. I was having breast surgery for possible cancer, but it was not cancer, but a large lump the size of a golf ball or baseball. I was very afraid of the surgery and terrified of the anesthesia.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did not think much about it as I had very strong vertigo as the injury was near my ear. It was very hard to walk. I had motor skill problems, memory problems and pain.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After knowing more from reading, etc. I am aware that I had a NDE, but I have never heard of one like mine. I am still confused about the part where I was around the car afterwards, while in reality I was unconscious. I was also trapped in the car and a policeman had to pry me out. I was totally unaware of this.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I have had an anti-depressant for years which seemed to open me up to more psychic experiences. I am in the process of going off it. It has not made me re-experience Bardo.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I suffered a lot afterwards from the after effects of the injuries. It was one of the hardest periods of my life in that I had just started a new teaching job. I feel that I did not stay out long enough to heal properly as I was afraid about my job.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It seems fine and very helpful for fleshing out information.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1howardena_p_nde.html