{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hosin_f_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Hosin F Possible NDE 3663","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hosin F Possible NDE 3663  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hosin F Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1684 Hosin F Possible NDE 3663  					  				  			      	  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Baghdad, 21 October, 1996. I was cutting a tree in the garden of my house. After a lot of effort, I felt cardiac problems then I was in swoon. I was transferred to the hospital and was admitted the intensive care unit. I stayed seventy-two hours. The doctor told me that I had a heart infarction and the remedy would take six months.

After a week while sleeping one night, with my son sleeping close to me, I felt something swooped into my face. I was scared a lot. I tried to open my eyes but I couldn't because it was as if there was a barrier between my eyes and that thing. I tried talk to my son but I couldn't move my tongue or the muscles of my jaw. I lost consciousness so I couldn't hear. I also tried to move my feet but I could not, so I succumbed. I felt that I entered to a black eerie and awesome world looking like a long tunnel. Suddenly I felt a twinge of needle at my left wrist, and then I felt my body was coming back to me and my soul returned to my body. I heard the daylight call to prayer. I thought that maybe I had a bad nightmare.

Two weeks after I had the same thing happen, I felt something swooped into my face. I entered to dark black tunnel, and then I reached to a shining colored phosphoric golden world. I looked at myself, I couldn't see my body so I knew that I had left it behind, it was on the bed and my family was crying there. The speed was much more light speed, but it was fun. I tried to turn my head around me but I could not my sight was straight ahead only.

I exited that world to a third world, this new world looked like our world at sunrise time, with some clouds, with wafts of breeze, I said to myself here I will not suffer anymore, this is the end of sickness and fatigue.

Again, I tried to look around me but I could not. After that, I felt a twinge of needle at my left wrist. Then I felt my body was coming back to me and my soul returned to my body, and again I heard the calling to the daylight.

In the next patrol medical check, he checked my heart as a routine, I noticed marks of exclamatory on his face, and he asked me what happened to you? I told him the story, then I looked at the mirror and I saw my left eye pulled down! And it was some of shiners up to my face.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  21- 10 - 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Heart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Very aware.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very aware.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I entered a strange world and unknown time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark black tunnel, I passed through it by a very high speed, looks like a different world.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An ablaze shining light, I reached a coruscation world made of light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     عالم مكون من اضواء ساطعة لماعة براقة ذهبية اللون و عالم اخر براق لونه بلون السحر او الفجر

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, heartsease, exactitude, health.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     I didn't feel that.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became more sociable, love life. My opinion about life has been changed.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After three days I shared with others and my doctor, they appeared affectionate.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience was real and I would like to share it with others, especially people who have also had near death experiences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hosin_f_possible_nde.html