{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hope_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Hope S NDE 3026","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hope S NDE 3026  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hope S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1073  Hope S NDE  3026  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I saw myself in bed; I was at the ceiling and I thought that was fun, I loved the bird's eye view.  I could see my mother beside me, with a sponge and ice water and I could hear her praying even though she was not speaking aloud.  I could then see everything going on outside too.  I was bored with the scene and just then a person spoke to me and I was embraced with great love.  There were several of these people there with me and they told me I had found my way to a different place of life.  They spoke to me just like you would speak to a child, they told me that I was very sick and to get better I would have to go with them.  I was happy to do so. I then saw myself above my house and going higher and higher until I could see the planet from space.   I traveled across space and I was told that I was being taken to the home planet of these people so I could get better.

When we got there, I made a comment about how much everything looked like the place I had just come from.  They laughed and told me that in order for me to feel comfortable, and get better, that they had made everything to look like home.

They put me in bed, told me to sleep, and that I would wake up in three days.

On day three, I awoke already home and in the hospital. After that, I could leave my body any time and loved to do because I could talk to the other people by doing so.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1964

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessChildbirth  'Other than the 1964 event, I was born without heart beat, cord wraped around my neck 3 times.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  As child just pre-kindergarten, I had come down with Rubella.  My fever shot up to 107, which at that point I fell into a coma at home.  I was told that I was in the coma for 3 days.  The doctors had told my parents that I was brain dead, that I would most likely die while in a coma, and if I were to awake, I would be in a vegetative state.   On day three of the coma, I awoke from a wonderful experience to find everyone falling to their knees and weeping. Of course, I was fine.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I could hear everything and be aware of everything at once.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     See the above please

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     another dimensions with planets

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      love love love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate.   None really

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain

What is your religion now?      Moderate.   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     seeing the future, knowing peoples thoughts and so on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I was born without a heartbeat, cord around my neck 3 times

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hope_s_nde.html