{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hollie_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Hollie M Probable NDE 4748","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hollie M Probable NDE 4748  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			    				  					  			          Hollie M Probable NDE  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification Probable NDE  			            2407 Hollie M Probable NDE 4748  		                		              		                			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a field and this place was the most beautiful, peaceful place I had ever been. There really wasn't anything spectacular about it. It was a field but there was a hill with one tree on it.  This tree was beautiful with the leaves swaying.  All I wanted to do was walk to the tree. There was no sound, yet I heard singing like I have never heard before. The closest sound came after I was finally home and saw a boy on TV they claimed he had the voice of an Angel and he really did, I cried!

While in this place, I began walking toward this tree and my guardian Angel came to me.  She spoke not with her mouth but clearly in my head.  She said, 'You need to stop and wait.' I kept looking past her and moved around her to get to this tree. Her voice came more forcefully, 'Remember.' She held up her hand and on each one of her fingers there was a moving photo of my four children and she said remember them you have to wait.

I can honestly say I didn't know them as my children at the time. I felt nothing toward them.  The purpose I felt that I had was to get to the beautiful tree. I went to move around her again and she said look and pointed to the sky where clouds were making shapes like a bunny and she said rest here watch the clouds remember. I went to side step her again and it was like this powerful screaming from her, 'Wait! Rest here.  You are needed!' I did as she asked. I lay down in the field to watch the clouds.

The next thing I felt was this powerful force lifting me up.  Then I was thrown down and I landed in the bottom of the bluest water.  It was so far down; I was struggling to get to the top to breathe. When I woke up I was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit, but I felt like I was coming out of the water and trying to suck in a mouthful of air.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   The doctor had cut a major artery and failed to realize it until I bled out.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My experience was so vivid I couldn't say what time it was or where I was it was just beautiful and I didn't want to be here. I would say waking in the intensive care unit with the doctors and seeing two male angels with me. I had one at the foot of my bed and one on the right side near my head. Neither spoke with their mouths, but they spoke in my mind. They said we are not here to take you we are here to comfort you and your family and watch over you till you get to leave!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear glasses or contact lenses and there I was seeing a tree far away on a hill and yet I could see it clearly.  I saw the details on the leaves, the trunk, and the clouds were so white and the sky so blue and the water felt and seemed so real.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Being there I didn't have to speak, my thoughts were read, and I could hear everything but nothing and when she spoke to me it was in the most peaceful voice, comforting.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my guardian Angel when I started to walk toward the tree. I didn't know her prior to that moment. She made it known that I wasn't to go to the tree that I was to wait that I had more to do and that I had four little kids depending on me. I honestly didn't really register my kids; all I could think about was getting to the tree and feeling more peaceful.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I have no idea where this field was or the tree on it, I have never seen any like it here or in books or magazines. The softness of the flowing grass, there was no coldness, it wasn't to warm it was an amazing level of complete comfort and peace.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete Peace! No regrets, no sorrow, no sadness, no anger, no hate, no rage, nothing came to mind that mattered not even my husband or my children, not my mom and dad no one mattered! I didn't feel any sadness for leaving them I was totally accepting of where I was.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian but not attending any church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to forgive faster and let things go that use to bother me, I say I am sorry because I don't want to have regrets here, they are not something to carry with you day after day! I have a brother far away and I have had more contact with him the last three years than at any other time in our life!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know now that death isn't meant to be feared that there is a much better place waiting on us and that if the majority of people knew this they would welcome it when it is their time to go. That we do not get to choose when we go, that time is chosen for us and it is God's time to decide if we stay or if we are not finished here not ours! I wanted to stay, but I understand now why I needed to come back!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was on a ventilator so as soon as I was off it I began telling my Dad. He is a Catholic and my husband who isn't a church going person. I explained it to my Mom, Step-Mom, Mother-in-law and after I was out of the hospital many friends and some people I didn't know but I felt urged to share! I think at first that they felt a bit shocked or maybe thought it was the medicine I was on.  Then I explained a few things like my Dad was praying and he was upset and the angel at the right of my bed laid his hand on my dad's shoulder and to me it was a relief for my Dad to know I was going to be okay! My husband was wondering about the angels in the room with us, I explained they were there while I was in the intensive care unit to make me feel calm, not to take me! They stayed with me till they wheeled me out of the intensive care unit and down to recovery on another floor.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because for a year I was depressed and hurt I couldn't figure out why I couldn't stay and why anyone would want to be here on earth when every day someone is shot, ran over, wars, gang violence and adults hurting their children or someone else's child.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I will never forget the time I spent there. The amazing way it felt, I have never and will never experience it again until it is my time. Death holds a new meaning to me. I shared things with my Grandpa who was passing this past December 8th. I told him it is a far better place than here and that there is no pain, no regret and he smiled and said he felt a bit better about what was waiting for him.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       When my time comes to go I hope I will get to walk to that tree and find out what it's like on the other side for now I am valuing my kids and the life God's let me have.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hollie_m_probable_nde.html