{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1holland_c_fde_nde.html","mytitle":"Holland C FDE and NDE 4879","mylang":"de"}
          	        Holland C FDE and NDE 4879  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Holland C FDE and NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE and NDE  			2487 Holland C FDE and NDE 4879  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I sat on my bike, in front of the car that was about to run me over for what felt like hours, having a little conversation with myself. I was commenting on things like what a nice hood the car had.  I was also talking about this is what that angel was talking about, that I saw years before. Then the car ran me over. I went right under. I was told people lifted the tail end of the car off me, I don't know. But as for the other side, well, let me just say that I was eternal is the best way to describe it. As for light and darkness, it was irrelevant. 

I drifted back into my body on the road and I started to yell, 'Don't let them cut me open, don't let them cut me open.' I guess I knew I was on my way to a hospital. There was a crippled man that placed a pillow under my head as I lay on the road. There was an ambulance ride.  The side of my head that was hanging off was stitched back on. Family doctor had to punch me in the head to knock me out.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  not sure very young at time

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.  Other: run over by car  I got run over by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Sitting on my bike in front of a car.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Sitting on my bike in front of a car.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Yes, life as I knew and know it was no more.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was connected with thought. This was before I was on the other side. Eternal being is more or less of the principles that if you were to know all your head would pop. Like you say you can fathom a pulsar or another galaxy - but not really.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Thought, sight, hearing - senses one, alone in mind and body I guess.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Like a speck of light. Like it was the only star out there.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     no but my mother during a heart bypass was flying over the ocean and nice beach.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Control. Calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Before the car ran me over my life till that moment was a flash.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Like a game of chess.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was three or four but when i was younger i had some kind of encounter that prepared me for the car.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     He is the same yesterday today and tomorrow. Was, is, and about to be.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   god. eternal . angle. love. eternal. amen.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     He is the same yesterday today and tomorrow. Was, is, and about to be.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   But I am different than most.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I don't have any friends and I don't have any girlfriends. I'm a good guy. I just plan to travel with the tail end of my life. Hopefully, with my better half. I have my house up for sale now. When it sells, I drift.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sure. Come on man I was run over by a freaking car. My skull has a dent in it just above my temple. Let's just say I know me. What I am. And I know what I'm not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The car. The car was nice. It had a front end a lot like the Jaguar coupe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Once in a blue moon, in one ear out the other.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I saw like an angel, without words in a moment like I received a thought. When I sat on my bike in front of the car, it all sunk in.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Why? Eternity why me, why stars, why bloody animals in religion?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Life is short. No more than a cut or event that passes.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I have a mental block or something keeping me from being alone. It's like being possessed but you're not. My mind is strong and I, it knows what it's doing. My mind, me, alone in my body from head to toe - amen. I think it is not knowing something that I would like to but the information is not there. So what is it that I need to know. I don't, know.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. God, show me the love.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Do you want to be free? Is something hampering your freedom? A brush with death is rare, is there no sense being made? Let go = love.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1holland_c_fde_nde.html