{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hillary_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Hillary H NDE 2677","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hillary H NDE 2677  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hillary H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						881  Hillary H NDE  2677  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was at a friend's get together and everyone had been drinking at around 12:30 at night I was extremely hungry, everyone there was eating cookies. I have a sever allergy to nuts and can die within three minutes of eating one. I ate the cookie and right away, my mouth swelled shut. My friend's house is out in the country and about twenty-five minutes away from the hospital as well as ambulance transportation. Thirty seconds after my lips swelled shut my eyes and face swelled up completely, so much so I couldn't see anything. My body broke out in hives and slowly my throat began to swell shut. My friends called an ambulance immediately; I had no EpiPen on me I was going to die. I collapsed on the bathroom floor my friends by my side talking to me, trying to keep me awake. I could feel my throat close more and more every second. Every second that passed it became harder and harder to breath. I thought to myself this is it I am going to die here on this bathroom floor, I won't be able to say goodbye to my family. I told my friends to tell my parents and sisters that I loved them. I told my friends I loved them to, that was how sure I was that this would be the end. Eventually my throat closed over completely and I lost consciousness.

I saw all black; I remember going through my life, each important event that ever happened to me, I relived it, from my first birthday to the last birthday I had. I remember saying I am only seventeen in my head and trying to tell everyone that I was only seventeen and I was too young to die. I felt extremely frightened and scared. Eventually I heard a voice in the blackness it belonged to my deceased grandfather whom I was very close to. He told me not to be scared and that I was going to be fine, and that I was getting a second chance. Suddenly I woke up in the ambulance. The paramedics were shocked they thought for sure I would not wake up and that they had been too late to save me. No one could believe that I had survived. My friends were crying. I am so happy that God gave me a second chance at life or else I would not be here today. This experience has changed my life for the better.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 20, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Severe allergic reaction, couldn't breathe.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was able to hear things that I would normally not take any consideration to. I could hear every little word and even the breaths that my friends were taking. It was pretty weird.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before I could no longer breath I was able to hear all my friends talking to me yet I could not say anything back to them, then I saw blackness. I could hear every little noise around me, from the dripping water to rain.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was almost as if everything around me had paused except for the voice and scenes from my past.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was blurred and I couldn't see anyone.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Every sound was louder and more defined.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was darkness all around me, but at the same time I could see everything that I did in life before I ate the nuts. I believe my grandfather's voice was the tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I only heard my grandfather's voice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw a bright white light right before I woke up.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very sad because I wasn't going to be able to say goodbye to my family and tell them that I loved them. I also kept thinking about everything I was going to miss out on in life and not be able to do. It was the most terrifying experience of my life I could slowly feel myself dying; it seemed to be going on forever.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw every important event that had ever happened in my life, from my first birthday to my first kiss, to fights with my parents. I saw how selfish I was and how I would give anything to go back and change.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe in God.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I now believe in God  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe in God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I say things now that I wouldn't have said to people before. I am no longer afraid to get something off my chest because you never know how long you will be on this earth for. I tell everyone I love them every day.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My grandfather being there with me and making me feel like I was going to make it, hearing his voice I knew everything was going to be okay.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience the day after it happened. My friends believed me when I told them I saw my life and heard my grandfather, however my mother thought it was impossible, but I know it happened. My friends are more religious.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My grandfather being there with me and making me feel like I was going to make it, hearing his voice I knew everything was going to be okay.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as the top answer.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hillary_h_nde.html