{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hilde_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Hilde Probable NDE 5447","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hilde Probable NDE 5447  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hilde Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3311 Hilde Probable NDE 5447  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an appendix operation during which I suddenly floated out of my body.  I could look down at the room from above, but at the same time, I was present everywhere in the room and could see everything from all perspectives. The doctors were standing around me working hectically on me and I didn't understand why.  I wanted to tell them that I was fine and that everything was okay. In fact, I felt free of all irksome emotions! Then I was pulled along through a tunnel towards a light. It was bright and simultaneously loving, friendly and full of affection.  I would gladly have continued to float along further, but a being, one that I could sense but couldn't see, told me it was not time yet.  I was given to understand that I still had some duty to fulfill and so I must go back. That was not what I wanted, but a strong suction pulled me back into my body through an opening in my head.  I found it very disagreeable to be back in my body. Everything was suddenly narrow and painful, and feelings of fear and uncertainty were once again part of me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Difficult to say.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Difficult to say.  I think it was when I was sent back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Space and time were irrelevant. So, it was as if those dimensions didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was linked with my emotional awareness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No words were uttered. When I thought something, it was understood by the beings and the other way around. The voice was clear and distinct, but it didn't come from outside.  It seemed more like a process by which our thoughts connected.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't know them. They were bodiless and not visible.  They were tangible, in that I knew they were there but it was as if they were behind a veil. There was a feeling of cheerfulness. I don't recall anymore details of what was said, but I remember a peaceful, calm voice telling me telepathically that I could not stay and must go back again.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was agreeable. I could see it and it consisted of deep and lovely feelings.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom without fear, and also, joy and airiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain This is a hypothetical question.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was as if time and space, as they are on earth, were unknown dimensions there.  And the light, which I could see and feel, emanated pleasant emotions such as affection and love. Communication happened without words at lightning speed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That our dimensions of thought are seemingly limited by our brain, and do not apply outside of our body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not until adulthood, when I was about thirty-five.  My listeners were incredulous and astonished!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more clear and truthful than the reality that I had known up until that time. However, I was anxious to talk about it with someone.  I kept thinking, 'Something of this kind just can't be real, since I have never, ever heard of anything like it!'

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I was having surgery and was under anesthesia.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes.  I reflected for a long time, wondering about what duty was awaiting me (remembering that the voice had said I had to go back so I could fulfill some duty.)  Then later I had children, studied psychology and wrote books.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hilde_probable_nde.html