{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hijo_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Hijo H NDE 2601","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hijo H NDE 2601  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hijo H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						842  Hijo H NDE  2601  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Rolled over multiple times in an SUV after striking a dirt berm head-on. During rolling, saw a brief vision of my surroundings, but was actually detached from the experience, like I was outside of my body. The scene around me was the rolling of the vehicle, but from my vantage point, I was stationary - somewhat like looking into a dryer in a Laundromat, where everything is spinning around and I am standing still.

I could also hear the sounds of the metal and the dirt as the SUV contacted the ground. Hearing was very good; the visual was just everything spinning around, but with me being stationary.

I had a great feeling of peace, and 'quiet' and no pain whatsoever. After the SUV stopped, I was jerked 'back' into my body and then experienced severe pain in my chest where I had been slammed against the seat belt. The pressure from this force of my body against the seat belt was so great that it pushed my rib cage nearly against my spine (my supposition) and the result was that a bubble was created in my heart sack, just from the impact.

  					  This pain was the most intense, and later in the hospital I found out that the downward force of turning upside down in my seat belt caused my T7 vertebrae to be fractured (compression fracture).

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Dec 1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Auto accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Every sensation (auditory especially) seemed heightened. It only lasted a 'moment' before there was a blackness that came over me, and then back in my body, in the car sitting upright with the radio going. I even reached over and turned off the radio.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I guess it would be while I was 'out of body' because shock set in immediately after I 'returned' to my body, and I found doing the simplest things very difficult. (A cop wanted my license, and I could not get it out of my wallet.) Time was completely irrelevant, and what seemed like only moments to me turned out to be almost an hour. Very weird.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   As I said, what seemed to be moments were much longer.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I said, as everything was rotating inside the truck, my vision was stationary.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Already described.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete calm and detachment from what was going on - it was very peaceful.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Material things were not as important. But this took many months to 'sink in'. Also I wanted to live more in the moment and make sure that I soaked up all that was around me as much as I could.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have had psychic events prior to the experience, so I can't say that anything 'new' or enhanced happened.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know that death is a peaceful, painless experience. I am certain of that. I was in complete peace and had no pain during this brief experience, and felt 'slammed' back into a very painful body afterward. There is some mechanism, beyond shock, that allows consciousness to continue lucidly when this happens.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was months after, because it took some time to integrate the experience, and I was occupied with a lot of physical pain from the injuries. When I told my wife, she was fine with it, because I had already shared my psychic experiences years before. I actually predicted some things that happened.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   The book 'Life After Life' by Raymond Moody.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just accepted that it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same answer.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for taking the time to be interested in this stuff. It is a very weird thing to go through, and not something that one can discuss much with people around you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hijo_h_nde.html