{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hessie_nde.html","mytitle":"Hessie NDE 2282","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hessie NDE 2282  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hessie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						656  Hessie NDE  2282  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

  					  This is what I saw and felt. At the time, I thought it was a dream. I woke up in a place that looked like a rose garden. I couldn't see anything else just roses and I remember it being really bright and white. There was a bench, I sat there, and I was crying. Not because I was scared but because I felt so happy. Next, a man sat next to me, I could not see his face but in my heart, I wasn't scared because I knew he was Jesus. Before I could say anything, he just told me that it wasn't my time and that my family was waiting for me. I asked him if I could please go with him but again he said I had to go because my family was waiting. I started crying even more because I didn't want to leave him. Next thing I remember is waking up in someone's driveway at the accident scene.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident       Had gotten ran over by an automobile.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Not sure, all I know was that I had been ran over by an automobile. The first time I actually went under the auto. The driver passed a second time and hit me. I flew about fifteen feet away from the auto and ended up in a driveway. I'm not sure what my condition was at the time because I was not conscious.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   After I had the experience. I was not conscious during my experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I had the experience. I was not conscious during my experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt like I was there for about an hour.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was very bright and things seemed to be foggy. Nothing really looked solid but I felt like I knew what everything was.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really don't think I was able to hear anything through my ears. When I was experiencing it I felt as if I was told in my mind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I just remember seeing a bright light all of a sudden. I don't recall if I went through anything. I just remember it being dark then all of a sudden really bright.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     To me it felt as if it was Jesus, he came and sat on a bench with me. It was then that he told me it wasn't my time and that my family was waiting for me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright cloudy looking light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     yes, I saw the most beautiful rose garden I have ever seen. No soil, no grass.  Just rose bushes and a bright white light.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, peacefulness, safety, complete. Then towards the end when Jesus told me I could not go with him I felt extreme sadness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   What I saw is not hard to describe. It is the peacefulness and beauty that I felt that is indescribable.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel as if when I just look into someone's eyes I can tell if that person is good or evil. I have never been able to explain it but I am always correct. I tend to 'feel' things when someone in my family is upset or in pain and I try to get a hold of them via phone or email or I go visit them.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peacefulness I felt when I heard Jesus' voice. It was calming and a beauty that is amazing. What I saw was also breathtaking. It was the whole experience that is significant to me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It has been eighteen years since my accident. I told my mother last week and she said I was very lucky because I was able to 'feel' Jesus. I told my friend this afternoon and he is the one that suggested this website to me. He was actually pretty excited that he knows someone that this has happened to.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because as a child and even now as an adult the paranormal has always frightened me. Usually the smallest of things would scare me and with this experience, there was no fear whatsoever. It was the complete opposite.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well, I started reading different experiences that children had and I feel my experience is similar. I was nine years old when this happened. I still get choked up when I really sit and think about what happened to me. It was beautiful.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for giving me the opportunity to fill this out.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hessie_nde.html