{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1herve_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Herve R Possible NDE 8003","mylang":"de"}
          	        Herve R Possible NDE 8003  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Herve R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4153 Herve R Possible NDE 8003  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I became aware about this recurrent dream at the around age 8.  Everything started when I was researching dream meanings around the age of 13.  I was searching for answers into a dream that I had almost every day.  As I became aware that I needed to find answers, each time I discovered something, I woke up with a strange sensation.   After all this research and talking with serious people as well as people who were close to me, our conclusion was that I had an NDE experience.

So I'm going to explain it in detail and you can judge by yourself if you want, and I'm thanking you in advance for this.  

In 1964, I was stricken with a disease called TOXICOSIS.  I was vomiting everything I swallowed whether it was solid or liquid.  I was dying from being dehydrated and underfed, especially at 6 month of age.  One evening, I was in a very bad shape.  The doctor was asking for a permanent nurse, without much hope.  During the night, I died three times.  My heart stopped three times for more than 50 seconds each time.  It was the nurses on duty who made me come back. 

In what I believed at the time was a dream, I was in a tunnel or in a very empty and extremely lighted room.  I saw silhouettes, and I heard them murmur but I wasn't scared.  I saw a door made from a magnificent wood that I tried to reach and pull the handle to open it.  Each time when I thought to pull the handle, I was brutally pulled back.  This happened three times in a row, and each time I woke up at precisely that moment. 

At the beginning of my 'research' there was no internet, so I did it with the means available like the library, specialized magazines, and I met people who were open on this subject. Then I had a moment of discovery when reading 'LIFE AFTER LIFE' by Raymond Moody.  I thought to myself, 'That's it!' I think that the three failed trials to open the door are the three times when the nurses brought me back here.  The silhouettes and murmurs could have been the nurses.  I believe the door could have led to Paradise? When I finally found an explanation to this 'dream', I'm not quite sure about what to call it, perhaps a sleeping memory.  But when I named it, I stopped having the dream.  Still, from time to time I have the impression of reliving it, yet the memory is hazy. 

A last thing, if I waited so long to testify, it's that I feel the need to do it.  But above all, that despite all those accounts that I was hearing about, I have no knowledge about a baby of 6 months having an experience like this.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/12/1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness.   CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I WAS ONLY 6 MONTHS OLD

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was 6 months old, so it is difficult to say

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Rather a room

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I was only six months old.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very white

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     At the age of six months everything was unknown.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt good.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   JE N'AVAIS QUE 6 MOIS

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Too young, 6 months

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     (Age) 6 months

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The nurses

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Maybe this door was the opening to paradise.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think that this experience opened some doors! But I cannot easily talk about it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Because of paranormal phenomena, I lost some friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have difficulty to describe my environment.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Flashes and seeing apparitions

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    10 years later

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Having, again, this dream

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1herve_r_possible_nde.html