{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1herb_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Herb B NDE 4184","mylang":"de"}
          	        Herb B NDE 4184  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			                				  					Herb B NDE 4184  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						2077  Herb B NDE 4184  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On February 5, 2005, I was involved in a very bad motorcycle accident. I don't remember the accident itself, but I very vividly remember being on the side of the south bound lane.

The first thing I noticed was two emergency medical technicians and a police officer over me. I was on the asphalt. I stood up, out of my body, and observed what was happening. Standing up out of my body was no more significant than taking off my clothes. That's what it felt like. It was easy and the most natural feeling in the world.

The police officer asked the emergency medical technicians 'How's he doing?' One emergency medical technician said, 'This one is not going to make it.' I very quickly lost total interest in the scene before me.

I started to take a few steps north on the sidewalk, until I reached the ambulance where another police officer was standing. I stopped and said to him, 'That guy really got messed up.' He walked right by me without any acknowledgement. I thought, 'Wow, Mr. Personality.' Then I continued north until I had slightly passed the ambulance (truck).

I was walking away from the accident scene; I have no idea why. A few steps after the ambulance, a figure appeared on my left. I can describe the figure as male. I also cannot see him clearly. He said, 'Come on Herb. It's time to go.' It was then that I realized what was said to me was not spoken, it was done through thought. Without questioning why? Or where? I quickly scurried into the rear of the ambulance. The male figure who told me it's time to go was gone. I sat at the rear of the ambulance on the left hand side. I noticed both emergency medical technicians and my body towards the forward end of the ambulance. I absolutely had no interest in them.

This is about the time I realized I didn't have a body shape anymore. I knew something had changed, but I just accepted it. I noticed I was starting to slowly levitate. I also felt an incredible sense of peace and well-being coming from behind me. I had a pulling feeling and I was turned 180 degrees toward the left side of the ambulance. The pulling was like a gradual magnet effect.

I could see a square opening higher in the ambulance side. It was then that the pulling took control of me. I could see something flowing out of the square opening. I can best describe it as many small headlights beaming slightly through a thick white fog. I was pulled towards the opening and the white illuminated fog, which flowed like a stream. I finally reached the square opening. I looked in and it was a dark area with the multi points of light now in the distance.

I thought to myself, 'I'm back. I belong here.' I tried to 'will' myself through the opening. I tried, and tried and tried. The feeling of well-being, love and peace was strong. It finally became clear to me that I would not be allowed to cross the border.

My levitation started to weaken and I slowly started to sink. The opening vanished. The feeling of wanting to leave started to wane. I floated down to my starting position. I momentarily looked at the emergency medical technicians and my body. They didn't interest me.

Then a voice in my head said I had to go back. I knew the message in my mind meant back to my body. I suspect this came from the figure who told me it was time to go. I thought back, you have to be kidding, that is a train wreck. I sat there a short time when I agreed, 'Yes, I have to go back.' As soon as I accepted this, I was rocketed back into my body.

I looked up briefly at the ambulance crew. They were working on me feverishly. Then all went black.

I awoke in a rehab hospital about a week later. I had some hallucinations the night before I woke, but the out of body experience was very clear and very real. I know the difference.

This is an event in my life that re-plays in my mind every day. Most days, it replays in my mind many times.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02-05-05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Severe Head Injury  Accident with severe head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of consciousness when I was at the border to the other side, which I was not allowed to cross.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Definitely altered space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was normal but what appeared to me was nothing on this earth.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear normally but the spirit guide and I communicated through thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Made it to a square opening (window) which could not be crossed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met a male figure near the accident scene, who told me through thought, it was time to go.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Soft, white fog like flowing light with multiple points coming from the border which I could not cross.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See story

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, warmth, love and relaxed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     See story.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know the body dies, but the individual does not. At the border I know I was there before.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know the body dies, but the individual does not. At the border I know I was there before.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Leaving my body, levitating, incredible feeling of peace, and wanting to leave.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Four to six months before I said anything to anyone.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only information all others hear.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     No question, a real experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Everyone will experience an out of body experience eventually.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1herb_b_nde.html