{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1henry_mother_nde.html","mytitle":"Henry's Mother's NDE 7538","mylang":"de"}
          	        Henry's Mother's NDE 7538  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Henry's Mother's NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			3860 Henry's Mother's NDE 7538  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As told by my mother:

As a consistently sick child, my mother had many ear infections and was having tubes inserted to improve drainage. Mom said that during the beginning of the procedure she ascended to the ceiling of the operating room.  She observed the physician and nurse for a few minutes and heard the doctor tell the nurse in a rushed tone, ‘Turn off the ether!’ realizing they had given her too much. 

The next thing she remembers, she was sitting on her bed at home and as she looked down on her bed sheets, she realized they were now sequin sheets as opposed to her normal sheets. She was unable to be revived afterward and stayed in a coma for four days. When she awoke and was stabilized, she was bed-ridden for a week, and then developed symptoms of Type 1 Diabetes. 

The interesting thing is that she said she wanted so badly to 'just be back home.' To her amazement, when she arrived home and was bed-ridden for a week, she found that her mother had replaced her bed sheets with sequin sheets while she was in the hospital. This was her only memory of the ordeal other than she said that she missed home very badly during the time that she was out. She said that the physicians had told her parents that she would be needing rest for some time after coming home, so her mother prepared for this by purchasing all new sheets that would be pleasant for her upon her arrival.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1954

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose.  Other: Overdose of anesthesia led to coma, then Type 1 Diabetes within 2 weeks.  The nurse in out-patient surgery accidentally administered too much anesthesia.  A four day coma took place after event, followed by onset of Type 1 Diabetes at age 8.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The facts have been checked out.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Was told the experience felt like a vivid dreamlike state.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     She felt she was in another dimension that shared the current dimension in which we live.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No information was given for this from source.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No information was given for this from source.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She stated a deep feeling of missing family and wanting to be home.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     No information was given for this from source.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   same as above

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Mom became one of the first children to get beef and pork insulin in the USA, this was due to a wealthy family in Pittsburgh donating a large sum for a children's experiment with insulin. I believe their child had contracted it at the same time. Mom became healthy over time, took care of herself as best she could with Type 1 Diabetes from 1954 until her death at age 63 in 2010. She felt that she would have contracted Diabetes regardless of the Anesthesia induced coma.     Mom became one of the first children to get beef and pork insulin in the USA, this was due to a wealthy family in Pittsburgh donating a large sum for a children's experiment with insulin. I believe their child had contracted it at the same time. Mom became healthy over time, took care of herself as best she could with Type 1 Diabetes from 1954 until her death at age 63 in 2010. She felt that she would have contracted Diabetes regardless of the Anesthesia induced coma.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mom was amazed that she could float above her body near the ceiling and hear what the physician and nurse were doing.  She also felt that the later experience (during her brief coma) on her bed at home was in a different 'state' or 'dimension' than the OBE she experienced during the surgery.  See Question #25

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     She completely believed everything she saw and had the purchase of the sequin sheets verified by her mother.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The day before Mom's death from breast cancer- as I sat next to her in her bedroom, she sat up and asked if I saw 'him' at the foot of her bed.  I saw no one as we were alone and all was quiet.  She said, 'Him, he's right there', I asked who she saw, and she said 'Nicholas'.  I saw or felt nothing; maybe I felt a little creep-ed out. She then sat back down and went back to rest. I asked family member about a Nicholas and no one could recall that name.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, good site: Well done.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1henry_mother_nde.html