{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1henry_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Henry O NDE 2309","mylang":"de"}
          	        Henry O NDE 2309  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Henry O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						674  Henry O NDE  2309  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had a heart attack and was getting catheterized, two stents, died twice on the table, was defibrillated twice, burned pretty good. I saw bright vivid crystal fabulous colors very vivid and peaceful. Heard people yelling my name Henry, over and over again, I used some very vulgar language (ex-New York cop) I did not want to come back, did not want to be bothered. For two years I never told anyone, anything other than I absolutely have no fear of dying anymore, for fear I was an odd-ball, I never saw a tunnel, never saw Jesus, a bright light etc. Just that beautifully colored deep cut crystal. Then one day my wife and I were talking to an herbalist, and she was talking about NDEs, which I never even heard of before, well I told her my story and she believes I had an NDE.

The doctor said that I needed to go to Burlington for a catheterization. Get on the table, the tech says, 'Do you want to see the procedure?' I said, 'yes.' So they go in the artery in my right thigh. He says you will see a small wire, I do, they have three TV screens, I see my heart beating, really neat. Then the wire comes in the main artery. The tech says okay now I am going to put in the dye - a color contrast - and I watch my heart go black. I grab my chest yelling pain, pain, and the next thing I know is the crystal, the yelling, etc. So did I have an NDE? Who was the Irish nurse? I was on no drugs, my wife saw and spoke to the nurses herself so I think I am not totally nuts. I am hoping you can tell me what I experienced.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	February 8, 2001   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-relatedHeart attack       Life threatening event, but not clinical death had heart attack and was getting catheterized, two stints, died twice on table, was fibbed twice burned pretty good. I saw bright vivid crystal fab colors very vivid and peaceful. Heard people yelling my name henry, over and over again.

  I was diagnosed with kidney cancer the previous month and was en-route to see the surgeon in Burlington when I had the heart attack close to Central Vermont Hospital (CVH). Here is where it really gets weird. My wife a licensed Registered Nurse was driving. I told her I was having a heart attack. She says no it's just nerves. I responded 'BS' I am having a heart attack!!! She pulled into CVH. I said, 'chest pains.' They rushed me to the rear with my wife present. This brunette nurse five feet six inches tall, one hundred and ten pounds weight, with thick Irish brogue comes in says lie down. I said I can't, the pain increases when I try. She reaches out, touches my shoulder and says the pain is gone lie back, The pain was gone and I did lie back. She then says in this thick Irish brogue, 'You had a heart attack. The first blood work will be negative. The second blood work will show positive,' and at this she exits the room. I looked at my wife puzzled and said she sounds exactly like my aunt Brigit, who raised me when I was very young, my mother had a drinking problem, this aunt Brigit was called a saint - always cared for family members devout catholic, never married, died around 1957. The doctor comes in and another nurse, they examine me do blood etc. The doctor says we are going to keep you overnight. I asked who was the Irish nurse? They both look at one another and say what Irish nurse? The doctor says we have no Irish nurse. My wife says I saw her; she has a thick Irish accent. Both say we have no nurse like that. We then described her again; they say no such person works here. That was about 9:00 am 02/07/2001. At about 6:00 pm more blood taken from hospital bed. About 8:00 pm the doctor says well the first blood test and exam showed nothing, but the second shows you had a heart attack.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Deeply engrossed and focused in a very pleasant and comforting way. I did not want to be disturbed or come back to the voice of the tech yelling my name. He said, when I asked what the hell that stink was, we lost you twice we had to defibrillate you and burnt all the hair off your chest. I had burn marks for a week from that.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       1. The nurse at CVH.  2. On the table before I went out.  3. Looking at the crystal I would say I was totally focused.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were so vivid I can't explain the colors, and I noticed when I moved my head ever so slightly the colors shot all over with such intensity I was absolutely amazed, engrossed, relaxed.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   If you consider the colors light yes, very much so. I now consider the colors light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the colors the cut crystal sa previously described  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total amazement marveled at such color and discovering I could make them shoot around by ever so slightly moving my head, the depth of the crystal cuts, emotionally at peace, relaxed comforted, safe totally at ease and enjoying it a lot.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Again no border or anything, but quite frankly I was very pissed off when I heard those voices calling my name. I did not want to go back.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I now know of God but I believe now all religions pray to the same God and religions are mostly fear based and political bodies with a little of God thrown in, and again love is all there is. I don't go to church I don't feel the need I know I am connected to a loving God just like you who are reading this are.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I now know of God but I believe now all religions pray to the same God and religions are mostly fear based and political bodies with a little of God thrown in, and again love is all there is. I don't go to church I don't feel the need I know I am connected to a loving God just like you who are reading this are.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After I came around, ever since that I know there is more to the other side and it will be great. I remember hearing very distinctly 'LOVE IS ALL THERE IS' twice by an unknown male voice; those words are now burnt in my mind forever.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More humble, no fear of death. I believe there is a God somewhere. I believe we go someplace great, I believe the voice that love is all there is, and it's not the Beatles song.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not hear or read since the incident about anyone seeing what I saw. Everyone else reported bright white light, Jesus, tunnel, departed loved ones etc., etc., etc. I saw these vivid colors of what I believe to be crystal, and the overwhelming feeling of knowing, there IS an afterlife and it is good, no fear of death whatsoever! Not to sound sick, but hearing of deaths since then I feel kind of glad for them and look forward to returning myself to wherever it was.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Not after but that Irish nurse before the event I just can't understand.  No other issues.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of them amaze me; I was never given to such stuff. As a New York cop, I saw a lot of death I worked as a narcotics detective, no-knock strike force. We kept sane by joking about very bad situations; this experience has humbled me very much. I am different.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About two years the herbalist says the crystal is in the Bible, that I went straight through to heaven, that's why I never experienced anything else. I don't know what she means. My wife and I are both amazed at the whole thing. I really don't know how friends and relatives were influenced - they seem unaffected when I insist they not ever worry about death - perhaps they think I am a little cuckoo.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I heard about a bride Murphy when I was a kid about some woman who claimed to have lived before, I heard quips about people saying there was life after death and the tunnel and light, but never the colors or crystal.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Inexplicable, amazing unbelievable, but always very real ever since it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same all very real yet inexplicable, I never heard anyone else seeing crystal or colors and definitely the Irish nurse.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I wish.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I sincerely would love to know if anyone else has ever reported any of my things, crystal, colors etc.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I am glad to have found this one, I never knew of such a website I feel surprised you knew so many questions to ask that fit the experience I had.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1henry_o_nde.html