{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1henrietta_n_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Henrietta N Probable NDE 207","mylang":"de"}
          	        Henrietta N Probable NDE 207  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Henrietta N Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1421 Henrietta N Probable NDE 207  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This occurred during an operation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12-29-90

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related     cessation of breathing....

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert to experience what happened. Although I did die during the operation. I saw the doctors working on me to get me to come back.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew that I wasn't on earth. It was too heavenly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Harp playing music, angels singing voices gentle voices.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through three beautiful doors -- each enclosure was different.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the Son of the Living God, Jesus Christ, Blessed Virgin Mother, my parents, and the doctor's wife who operated on me the conversation went as this. Jesus said to me: My little one, I will send a son to you in My time. I will also send the doctor a young lady to help him with his four children. And that I must return to earth to take care of the three children He has given me. My mom and dad hugged and kissed me. They talked to me too. Words of missing one another were expressed. The doctors wife, gave a message to the doctor, her earthly husband, and told me to tell him how much she misses him and loves him and misses her children

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brilliant blue that it was bright that it would hurt a human being's eyes, but it didn't bother me as much.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was sitting on Jesus lap. I saw the doctor's wife who passed on earlier that year in September 1990 with a heart attack. I wasn't aware of her death.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy and felt loved and at peace.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw the things I should have done, and also the things I shouldn't have done. My life passes me like a speed of light.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Jesus said to me, 'My daughter you must return to earth to take care of the three children I gave you.'  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It made know that God Loves us and wants us to live with him when we love each other down here on earth and do all good to everyone. Jesus is has Mercy and His Love goes beyond the incomparable. Words cannot describe the love that Jesus has for us. He loves us unconditionally.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     There is too much to explain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was coming back to this earth. I didn't want to return. I wanted to stay up there with God for all eternity and with my mom and dad.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They told me that I was blessed to have this happened to me. I must have great faith. These were some of the comments.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It gives us a peaceful life with much joy and comfort. No more pain nor suffering. Yes, there is a beautiful life there after leaving this world. God has promised each and every person this. After all we are HIS Children.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1henrietta_n_probable_nde.html