{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1henrietta_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Henrietta J NDE 7358","mylang":"de"}
          	        Henrietta J NDE 7358  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Henrietta J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3743 Henrietta J NDE 7358  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sick for about ten days.  The hospital sent me home finding nothing, despite intensive pain in the belly. One evening, being unable to support it any longer, I called for help who took me to the emergency at the hospital. There, again, the doctor wanted to send me home, even though, I was explaining to them, that I thought I had peritonitis. They left me there on a stretcher. My strength left me; I even couldn't call for help anymore. I saw that it was to no avail. In their eyes, I had a colitis attack. It was then, feeling that I was passing on and made my prayers. 

Suddenly I felt propelled into the air and I felt no pain anymore. I felt very much at ease. I saw a light: bluish white, very intense, that didn't dazzle me. All was black around me; I floated in the void while approaching this light, then was I stopped, as if being behind an open window. I wanted to jump into this beneficial, living light, which seemed to me as being God. 

But my grand-aunt, deceased in 1982, appeared to me in the frame of this window. She was wearing a double pearl necklace. She was young and bright. I then said to her, ‘Aunt Andrée, I would like to stay with you.’ She smiled at me. My consciousness was lucid, much clearer and quicker than in the earth-life, and I knew myself as being dead. My aunt, while smiling, answered, ‘No, that's not possible.’ I insisted, ‘Aunt Andrée, please allow me to stay with you, I'm fed up journeying down there, I want to get back home!’ But, still smiling, her reply came again, the same as before. She was talking to me without words, no lip movements, but what she told me entered my consciousness instantly. 

I then said to her, ‘You want me to take care of your daughter, is it so?’ She answered, still by this instantaneous telepathy, ‘Yes it is so’. Then there appeared a vision before me: while I still was looking straight before me, I saw below me, like several floors below me, my cousin (the daughter of my grand-aunt) and a hundred-year-old uncle that I hadn't seen since years. I was astonished to see this uncle, but not to see my cousin, who was like a sister to me. These two people were living several kilometers away from me, but I saw them, from above, and they didn't perceive me at all. I sensed very clearly that, if my aunt would have let me cross the frame of this window, it would have been impossible for me to 'turn back'. 

I decided to obey my aunt, of whom I perceived the infinite wisdom as never before. This light that I would call God, in which I had no right to enter, was cradling my Aunt Andrée with unconditional love. I felt it within reach, but I had no right to go into it. Nevertheless, I felt infinite love coming from my aunt, and I was so happy to see her, that I told this to her. She answered that she too was very happy to see me, but that I should not enter that place, as it was not yet the moment. I then said good-bye to her, and she did as well. 

I was propelled back, and found myself in my body that was so weakened that I lost consciousness shortly after. I only woke up the next day, when passing a scanner. At last, the diagnosis was done and I was operated on the following night. The surgeon saved me by a hair's breadth. He was very astonished that his colleagues had made such a terrible mistake, since I had been sick for 10 days. I suffered a lot, following the operation. I regretted not being dead, but what I experienced afterwards, made me understand why my aunt sent me back. Since then, I'm able to speak with deceased people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Around 2006
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Peritonitis with double occlusion and double abscess

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my cousin, at her home, and my uncle at his home, but from above, from afar, like several floors deeper, but I didn't dare to look too long at them, fearing to enter their place, which I considered to be indiscreet.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the experience, I considered myself as being in the real life. I sensed life as a journey, and I knew that where my aunt was, that was my home. I knew that I had been in this marvelous place before my birth on earth, and I wanted to go home.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything with a perfect sight, but as I was behind this window, I saw blackness everywhere, all the while seeing well in the blackness. I could see my cousin and my uncle, and I saw my aunt and also this light. However, I saw very sharply, while normally I can't see without glasses, but this sight was also the eyes of my soul: my eyes saw, and heard at the same time. I was those eyes, I was my soul, and I was myself, all this together at the same time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My senses were unified; it made no difference between my sight and what I heard, as I heard with my soul, not with ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I arrived at the door of the tunnel, but I didn't feel going through it; on the other hand, I had no right to enter the light. I was like behind an open window.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my grand-aunt Andrée, deceased in 1982, my cousin and an uncle, still living at the moment of the experience.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I recognized a world I knew already, I knew that I came from this world before being born to earth, but it was neither strange, nor esoteric, it was more real than the world of the living on earth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was so happy that there are no words to describe it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     As I was not authorized to enter that world, I didn't seem to understand everything; on the other hand, I obeyed my aunt as I sensed that she knew everything: it was evident.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew myself as being dead. I hoped that my aunt would allow me to enter this light. I knew that if she had permitted it, I would never have turned back. I thought of my husband, of my friends and my animals, but I told myself that it was not forbidden to die and that they would get along without me. I only came back for my cousin.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   If I had been authorized to enter beyond the window, that was open, I would not have come back. I only returned for my cousin, to obey my aunt, as I knew that my aunt knew everything. The idea to disobey her would never come to me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As I had not been brought up in any religion, I understood after the experience that God exists, as well as eternal life. I didn't 'convert' to Catholicism, but, since the encounter with my friend deceased in 1922, I completely adhere to the Christian values.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Au moment de mon expérience,j'ai compris que Dieu est une Lumière vivante.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now, I know that God exists, that he loves us unconditionally, and that persons, animals and plants who died: are well and alive!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I only met my grand-aunt Andrée.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   J'ai senti que cette lumière que je voyais était Dieu,cette lumière était vivante,mais je n'ai vu aucun prophète de quelque religion que ce soit.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Je savais que j'existais avant de naître sur terre,puisque j'ai dit à ma tante tout naturellement :"Tante Andrée,s'il te plait,je veux rester avec toi,j'en ai assez d'être en voyage là-bas,je veux rentrer à la maison!"

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Je lisais dans ma tante,elle lisait en moi,et je voulais pénétrer dans cette lumière d'amour dans laquelle était ma tante,car je voulais me fondre en elle,tout en restant moi-même mais en étant partie d'elle.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     J'ai perçu Dieu comme étant cette lumière,cette lumière était vivante,consciente,mais cela me paraissait absolument naturel et tout à fait évident.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Je me savais morte,mais j'étais en vie,je savais ma tante morte,mais elle était en vie.Je n'ai pas découvert qu'il y a une vie après la vie,cela me semblait absolument naturel et je ne me suis même pas posée la question.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     La seule chose importante,c'est l'amour,la bonté,la compréhension,l'empathie,l'aide aux autres,humains comme animaux voire végétaux.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     L'amour de là-haut est beaucoup plus intense que l'amour de la vie terrestre,il va d'âme à âme,d'âme à Dieu.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. After my experience, God allowed me to get in contact by clairaudience and telepathy with deceased persons, especially one, who died in 1922. It is very important for me; this person is reassuring me and helping me with life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No Having always had an altruistic and compassionate disposition, I remained the same. But I know better at what point it is important.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Mon expérience est plus claire que tout souvenir de ma vie de l'époque,et plus claire que toute ma vie d'ailleurs.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm able to speak with certain deceased persons, mainly two, one who died in 1922, and a friend of this person, who died in 1909, to whom I speak less often.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is a life before life, a life after life; this seems to be very important!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told this experience to all my relatives. Except my husband, all had a polite reaction, but had no interest. My mother forbade me to talk about it to the uncle I saw during the experience. Since then, my uncle has died, and as I now know that he is not dead, I told him that I saw him. Besides, my communications with this person that died in 1922 are considered by my surroundings more or less like a game, than anything else (!!!), except by my husband, his mother, and above all, his grandmother. Moreover, my husband and his grandmother are also communicating with him.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew that it existed, but it was 'for the others'. I didn't think that I would have one myself; I wasn't concerned about it at all. Besides, mine doesn't resemble those that you hear usually, those people go 'farther' than me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This experience was so real that in this life it seems to be a dream in comparison.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still have the same impression; this experience is shining like a precise diamond in comparison to life on earth. No memory, no dream is equally real, except one dream, where I saw and talked to the friend, who died in 1909, of my friend who died in 1922. I know that this is a dream, but it shines very strongly in my memory.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I knew myself to be dead, but I was alive. I knew my aunt to be dead, but she was alive. I didn't discover that there is a life-after-life, that seemed for me absolutely natural and I never even asked myself that question. I perceived God as being this light, this light was alive, conscious, but this appeared absolutely natural and completely evident. I knew that I existed before being born to this earth, as I very naturally said to my aunt, ‘Please Aunt Andrée, I want to stay with you, I'm fed up journeying down there, I want to come home!’ I was reading my aunt, she was reading me, and I wanted to enter this light of love in which my aunt was, as I wanted to dissolve in it, all the while remaining myself and simultaneously being part of her. Love up there is much more intense than love in life on earth; it's going from soul to soul, from soul to God. The only important thing is love, kindness, comprehension, empathy, helping others, humans as well as animals, even plants. At the moment of my experience, I understood that God is a Living Light.  My experience is clearer than any other memory of my life at the time, and even clearer than all my life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I find that your questionnaire is very well done. Thank you      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1henrietta_j_nde.html