{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hellen_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Hellen C Probable NDE 2685","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hellen C Probable NDE 2685  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hellen C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						982  Hellen C Probable NDE  2685  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had been ill for two days and the doctor had misjudged the seriousness of my disease. When on the second day my son arrived, I could just crawl up the stairs and lie upon my bed. Once on the bed, I felt like sinking further away. The huge pain disappeared, as did the concerns and anxiety. The only thing that remained was a feeling of peace. I floated through something towards a light. The feeling there was lovely! Peace, affection and an intense feeling of love. No stress, anxiety, worries or battle. I stood before three men who sent me back; behind them was a friend of mine who had passed away. I couldn't reach her. I was woken up, as what seemed to be several hours later, by my son. Only when I could see the panic in his eyes I realized that I was dying and something had to happen.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 7-3-2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Severely ill, stomach infection.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The earthly way of looking at things subsides. In that way, it seems as if you have an objective and much bigger look on reality than you normally do.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     My regular sense of time was gone, or so it seemed. My experience only lasted a very short time, but afterwards I was informed that I was out for a period of about two hours.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I floated through something, but whether that was a tunnel isn't clear.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Three men who stood before me and sent me back. Behind them stood a friend of mine who passed away a couple of years ago.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very clear, all-encompassing light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        It seemed as if I've gotten a task. Until now it isn't clear whether my interpretation of this task is correct.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'geen, hoogstens spirituele'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Too little time has lapsed to judge my view. At this moment I have enough difficulties living life as it is.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   spiritueel  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Too little time has lapsed to judge my view. At this moment I have enough difficulties living life as it is.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Kind of a spiritual overview.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I notice I react less stable to other peoples' emotions.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experiences are hard to put into words as there are really no words for the feelings I had. This is the same for the environment that I encountered, there's just no earthly comparison to it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Stronger sensitivity although this was already present before.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six weeks. Reactions seem to remain shallow; I notice I can't describe the intense feelings I had.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   As a therapist I had theoretic knowledge of the NDE and what the consequences of it may be on your life.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Something in me has changed. I used to have a very positive attitude and joie de vivre. Now I have difficulties enjoying everything again. And this while every reason to be happy is present.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       What I miss in a lot of experiences and stories on the net is the effect on your daily life. I suffer from some kind of depression, of which I can't find much in other stories. Until now, I can't be happy with the experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hellen_c_probable_nde.html