{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1helga_nde.html","mytitle":"Helga NDE 2414","mylang":"de"}
          	        Helga NDE 2414  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Helga NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						728  Helga NDE  2414  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Before I had the experience, I broke down at my desk and I remember the arrival of the emergency physician and the ambulance. Then I remember a black tube, which turned into a brick tunnel, and on the walls of the tunnel, there were old oil paintings, which depicted scenes of my life. While I was crawling through the tunnel 'on all fours', I felt like I was being crushed by an unbearable burden. I could see a faint, but very bright light at the end of the tunnel. I was pushed forwards by the thought that that was exactly where I had to be. The nearer I came to this light, the lighter the burden that was on me seemed to become. When I got to the light I reached into it with my right hand first, and it was pleasantly warm - in contrast to the tunnel which was cold as ice (I was sweating anyway).

As I stepped through the light everything became very bright, airy and wonderfully beautiful around me, and I lost the burden that was previously threatening to crush me.

I felt happy and free, as if I was lying in a fragrant meadow with a slight breeze on a warm summer's day. In the next moment I was lying in my grave, I could clearly see the walls next to me. My husband and my daughter were standing above the grave and were completely devastated. I called to them that they shouldn't worry, I was fine and I would wait for them. After that my husband tossed in the rose he held in his hands, but my (at the time) thirteen year old daughter refused to cast hers in, even though I repeatedly asked her to. Suddenly I was back in the tunnel and another black tunnel appeared to my right. My consciousness slowly returned, and I could hear the doctor and the nurse saying excitedly, she's coming around again. Later they explained to me where I was and what had happened and that I should write down my experiences. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	09/25/2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Bin auf Arbeit zusammengebrochen und am nächsten Tag auf der Intensivstation wachgeworden   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't, I have had a similar level of consciousness before in my dreams  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I stepped into the light and as I lay in the grave.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Can't say.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the light everything was much clearer and brighter, in the tunnel normal outlines and colors.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A brick tunnel, never seen this before or after - the stones were brownish, and there were pictures in gold frames on the walls depicting people and circumstances of my preceding life. I didn't have time though to really look at the pictures.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My husband and my daughter.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brighter than anything I've ever seen before, but it wasn't blinding. It was pleasant and sort of white, and it exuded peace and warmth.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Als ich ins Licht trat, man kann es nicht beschreiben so schön war es, muß eine andere Dimension gewesen sein  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the tunnel - overwhelming, psychological dead-end. In the light - free and relaxed and filled with unbelievable peace and happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     In pictures, circumstances of my life with other people, but I can't describe any details.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   keins  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   keins  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Since I was five years old I have been having dreams that would come true again and again, concerning me and also others. I was a so-called sleepwalker. I was often afraid, because I had no influence on the course of events. Have also read cards on and off.

  Almost a year after my NDE I read the cards again and found myself in a kind of trance, though I was fully conscious, and I read the cards so precisely and knowledgeably for the lady I was reading for, that I was shaken up and bewildered myself, and since then I haven't touched the cards or done anything similar. Since that time, I've also been pretty much left in peace by my 'dreams'. I have substantially contributed to this myself. I have withdrawn my own sleep. Only with a television or a radio turned on.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am not afraid of my own death anymore because I have already lain in my own grave.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About twelve hours. I talked to my doctor about it, and he suggested I write it down.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only the usual 'talk' about the light, but no detailed information.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am certain that my experience was real, because of my previous dreams and 'visions' (positive and negative). I am also an atheist by the way, doesn't sound logical, but all I know is that there is more out there than our 'usual level of consciousness' will allow.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See previous answer to same type of question.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1helga_nde.html