{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1helen_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Helen D NDE 4507","mylang":"de"}
          	        Helen D NDE 4507  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Helen D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2268 Helen D NDE 4507  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the beach with some of my siblings and my stepfather. It was closer to sundown or a very cloudy day I think. The beach was close to deserted I think. My father had gotten a black rubber tire tube with a rope attached for us to use in the water - none of us could swim, father included, very irresponsible when you look back on it but par for the course.

I got a turn on the tire. My sister was begging me to get off for a turn. I finally conceded and got off. I hadn't realized how much I had drifted. I was in too deep and my feet didn't touch the ground. I continued to be sucked out further by waves. I began to panic. I knew no one could swim, I hadn't seen other swimmers around.  There were no cell phones in the 1970s, my father was deaf and could not call for help.

I knew I was going to drown, I remember choking on water, getting tired keeping myself up, the cold water, the waves, and the taste of salt.

See below for in between experience.

Finally I felt an arm around my waist, I slammed back into my body forcefully, felt the cold, salt, and motion of the water again. He was a powerful swimmer. I was deposited onto the beach blanket trying to process what just happened everyone asking me if I was okay. To this day, I don't know where he came from. I did not need mouth to mouth.

On the way home. I asked to pull over and I vomited tons and tons of water. (No he didn't take me to the hospital - once again very irresponsible.)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' unsure if stopped breathing  Death by drowning. If you mean prior to this incident. My entire life up until drowning at nine years old was traumatic and remained so until my early twenties.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say I felt very much alert and conscious of things around me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     See above.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was kind of white boiling cloudlike then most communication occurred by mind. I had led a very internal life prior to this even at nine years old.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard inside my head. Heard loud you must go back your mission in life is not over.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't see them. They felt both unfamiliar yet felt like I knew them somehow. I didn't know anybody who had already died.  I had many questions after my initial panic had subsided.  I wanted to know how the world worked, was made, what was our purpose in life, why we are on this earth, how did we come to be here, what was the right religion.  They tried to slow me down.  They said they couldn't answer everything for me at this time, they said to try to explain would be difficult, beyond us, because what we humans think is only an ant-like piece of what it all is and means.  They did answer the religion question. They said there is no right or wrong religion. It is what is in your heart that counts.  They also said that our purpose on this earth is to love.  After my review, they told me I had to go back my mission in life was not complete. I had to be convinced and reassured I would come back someday. I did not want to return to my awful life.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Time felt different..I know it was only minutes in the water but it felt like a lifetime.  felt like there was levels.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt panic at first.  I had questions about how this would impact my siblings, my father going home to tell my mother she had one less child, worried for my disabled twin sisters who have autism to name a few disabilities, knowing I'd be leaving them to fend for themselves, I was a big protector of them in my chaotic dysfunctional home.  I was reassured telepathically of sorts that they will be fine. Everything has a purpose; it was only after that that I could move on to my curiosity - Followed by immense peace, warmth, and calmness.  Then resentment at having to go back, resignation at my fate.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did have some things pass by. I had only lived nine years. I don't remember what I was shown. I wish I did because I think it was important. It was not so much what I was shown but how I felt about what I was shown that was important.  I learned that love is the purpose on earth (but sometimes hard to do).  I hope I am fulfilling my mission in life, I feel that they told me what it is but I don't remember and I think they wanted it that way.  Although I may fear the method of my death I know that fear is only temporary, I am not fearful of death itself, and don't wish to die at this time but know it will be a pleasant experience and more awaits us.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None. Had just begun catholic school at the time. was told I was sent more for the discipline of the nuns than religion.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   no preference. I don't really practice religion. Spiritual in my own way

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to describe the feeling of overwhelming peace. Earthly words don't cover it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Have had both psychic experiences when someone will die (they did), is pregnant, (they were) the baby's sex, (correct) the baby's name, (correct) and when he will die (remains to be seen). Intuition with relative's health issues (right on).  Body scanning for illness in others, some verified, some were strangers who I did not verify with. Have also had shared visions with two others of a spiritual nature.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well I felt better having the answer about religion. I don't have to struggle to see which one is correct.  The purpose of life seems really simple on the surface.  Good to know death is not the end. I am grateful for this pretty standout experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's funny I don't remember who the man was who saved me from the beach, how he came to be there, due to the trauma of my childhood itself I do not remember a lot of things.  I don't remember if I told anyone about my experience right after. I feel I did somewhat to my siblings and got weird reactions so I shut up.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Don't remember right after. I probably got flack for losing the tire.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is very clear and stands out in my mind as a significant life experience. No matter what I hear about brain releasing chemicals/endorphins in the death process. I don't believe it. It's real and those who have been through it know that too. I cannot be convinced otherwise.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Have had trauma based OBE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1helen_d_nde.html