{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heidi_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Heidi D NDE 1072","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heidi D NDE 1072  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heidi D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						549  Heidi D NDE  1072  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was seven years old and was on a bike hike with my two older sisters and a couple of their friends. It was a Sunday. We had ridden what I thought was a long way away from home. I had to borrow a bike from one of my sister's friends. We were going down a steep hill. I remember seeing a sign that said 'seven percent downgrade next two miles'. After starting on this hill, I realized that this bike was one where the pedals kept going as long as the bike was moving and I couldn't catch my brakes. I yelled out to my sister Kelly who was in front of me and told her that I couldn't catch my brakes and I was going too fast. She yelled back to me, 'Just put your feet out, and hold your breath and go!' I was so winded trying to keep up with my pedals that when I did just that - I held my breath - I passed out. I remember seeing my bike swerving back and forth. (I learned later that I crashed into a rock wall.)


Next thing I remember was a total feeling of happiness and peace. I remember floating above a field of blue and yellow lupines. There aren't really words to describe the amount of joy I felt. I remember looking to the right and seeing green rolling hills. The colors were so brilliant and the air seemed perfect. Then I looked to my left and I saw me in the back of a red Jeep laid out behind the back seat. I saw my sister Kelly sitting in the back seat sobbing and shaking me asking me to please wake up. I distinctly remember the smell of vomit while I was looking down on myself. Then I remember pain. I was back in my body.


I had vomited on myself. I remember looking at my sister thinking why did you make me come back?!? I guess I passed out again. The next thing I remember was looking down on myself again. This time we are in front of my house. My mom and dad were talking and there was a small crowd of people standing behind them. My mom ripped my shirt off and I remember seeing the boy I had a crush on standing in the crowd. I was telling my mom, 'Don't let Jay see my boobies.' My next memory was while they were wheeling me down the hallway at the hospital towards the emergency room.


My mom was crying because she was worried that I had not regained consciousness yet. She was wearing a white crochet shawl with pink roses on it. My next memory was waking up in a hospital room with the most massive headache of my life. Every time I tried to sit up, I passed out. I remember asking mom where her shawl was. She looked at me funny and told me that it was in the closet because I had thrown up on it. 'How did you know I had it on?' she asked. I simply told her, 'I saw it.' It was years later that I learned that my memories were either Near Death Experience or out of body experience. I don't share the story very often. I remember the details like it happened yesterday.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    spring 1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Crashed on a bicycle.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In and out of consciousness.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   It happened involuntarily.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Moderate   non-denominational Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I just remember wishing I could return to the peaceful feeling.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I was able to know things before they happened. This became heightened in my teen years.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the peace, lack of anxiety, beauty. The worst was having to experience intense pain after re-entry.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Rarely. I haven't told my husband of fourteen years because he doesn't handle the topic of psychic/paranormal very well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I buried a lot of the experience because my older siblings were so very jealous after I returned home from the hospital and still requiring a lot of help and attention. They were brutally mean to me so I tried to pretend that it didn't happen. I was an adult before I ever mentioned the experience to anyone in detail.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heidi_d_nde.html