{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heidi_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Heidi B NDE 3321","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heidi B NDE 3321  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heidi B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1169  Heidi B NDE  3321  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had had two dreams prior to this event where my mother and my friends were packing a suitcase and telling me I had to go to the hospital or I would die.

It turned out I needed a hysterectomy. My blood volume was low and going into surgery, I didn't feel fear, just tired and worn out.

During surgery, apparently, I remember leaving my body, and flying out of the room, down the halls and around corners. I then flew through the glass double doors in the entryway, and around the outside of the brick hospital building, gaining altitude as I flew. As I got up near the clouds, the street lights from below made them glow a pinkish color. I saw what looked to be thousands of angels, all in flowing robes or gowns, flying in the same direction. I struggled to 'catch up' with an angel to my right. Just as I had just about come up even with her, she smiled this gentle smile, and shook her head in a negative manner. I immediately dropped, waking up in my body. My body felt as though it was jolted with shock. My doctor was standing near the foot of the bed, looking very pale and shaken.

He told me that they had nearly lost me, indicating seven needle marks on my chest where they had injected me with adrenalin to jump start my heart and lungs.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1996

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I had to have a hysterectomy as I was trying to hemorrhage. My blood volume dropped so low during surgery that my heart and lungs could not function.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Even though I was physically unconscious, I felt very alive and intent on where I was going.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time wasn't an issue for me. But for the angel that 'sent' me back, it must have been.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I passed through the doors and as I flew down the halls and around corners, I knew I was flying, not walking or running. I knew the doors were solid, but I had no concern about the fact that I was passing through them.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember 'hearing' anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There were 'thousands' of angels, all flying in the same direction, below the clouds. When I tried to catch up with the closest angel, she didn't speak, just shook her head 'no' with a gentle smile. I was so disappointed but I knew it was right.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   The only light I saw was the glow of the pinkish street lights from down below reflecting off the clouds above us.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      As I was leaving my body, a sense of urgency. As I passed through the closed doors of the surgery and started flying down the halls, around corners, a sense of exhilaration and anticipation of something wonderful. There was such a thrill of excitement!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just that as much as I was ready to join those angels, it was not my time to do so.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I'm more open to talking about some experiences with people when I am sort of 'prompted' to.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Throughout the whole thing, from the dreams to the NDE, I knew that the Lord was directing and protecting me through it all. I understood, without anything being said, that I had more to do yet down here on earth. I knew, going into the surgery, a sense of peace but no fear, despite the dreams about dying. God is AWESOME.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It was a couple of weeks after the surgery that I told my mom and one of my sisters about it. They wondered why it wasn't the 'tunnel/bright light' experience but they knew, because I had told them of the two dreams prior to this event, and previous other experiences, some of them shared with me, that this had really happened. My mom had a 'feeling' that something was seriously wrong with my health. We (my family) all have had experiences with ESP.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Read about it, believed it, but never expected to experience it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I knew it was real but I was sort of confused. I didn't see the tunnel/bright light but I knew it was appropriate that I was trying to catch up with those angels. But as I read up even more about NDE's, I never saw similar reports, making me wonder how I could feel it was real even though no one else had ever experienced it like I did.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I know it really happened. I have a good imagination, but not that good. I feel weird that I wanted to fly with angels, but I know I was trying to take my place with them. What exactly that 'place' is, I'm not sure. And the things I've experienced in my life since then, convinces me even more that I wasn't done down here yet. I am currently raising my two granddaughters, four and five years old. The four year old has cerebral palsy and the five year old has emotional problems.

Shortly after that incident, I bought a house that had black mold throughout. I have never smoked but now have asthma, emphysema, and allergies. I have told many people about my house, only to find people who learned of it had life changing experiences of their own because of the knowledge I had passed on to them.

One man I worked with (and his wife) had been alcoholics for twenty years. He was in my office one afternoon and I told him about my house and how there were studies that showed that Sudden Infant Death could be a direct result of mold exposure. The man yelled at me, 'Brenda, you don't know what you just did for me!' With tears running down his face, he told me of how he and his wife had had a three week old son die twenty years before. He sobbed, 'We didn't kill our baby!' I was shocked and told him of course he didn't. He jumped out of the chair and started for the door. I asked where he was going and he said home to tell his wife that they didn't kill their baby.

Three days later, he was moving through the hallway and passed by my office. For the first time in twelve years, I saw that man smiling, his blue eyes twinkling. No more alcohol. So many people seem to have benefited from hearing about my house. So many things have happened since to make me know that's why I had to come back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heidi_b_nde.html