{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hector_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Hector G NDE 1077","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hector G NDE 1077  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hector G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						501  Hector G NDE  1077  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My parents took us to the beach for the weekend. I went out in the water by myself, further than I should have. I tried swimming back to shore but was exhausted. I felt myself slipping beneath the water. I struggled to stay on top. But I was simply too weak. I felt myself slip deep into the water. I remember swallowing a lot of water. I still struggled to get to the surface. After a few moments, I 'knew' that I was going to die. I surrendered myself to my fate.


Suddenly a great feeling of total love and peace engulfed me. The next thing I noticed was that I was traveling through a dark tunnel. I had a perspective of being pulled through it. I was being pulled by my chest so fast that my arms and legs were trailing behind me. All the while, I had that feeling of complete love and peace. I knew no fear. I saw a super bright light as I approached the end of the tunnel. There was a silhouette of a being. The silhouette was of Jesus Christ. I felt the love and peace was radiating from Him. I was told that it was not my time yet. I didn't want to return. I wasn't given an opportunity to argue.


The next thing I knew I was back in the water but I was close enough to shore that I could walk. I spit up a lot of water and briefly contemplated on what had just happened to me. But like any other eleven year old boy, I went ahead and had a good time for the remainder of our stay at the beach. I told no one of my experience until I was in my thirties. When I found this site I felt compelled to share my NDE.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June, 1962

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Nearly drowned  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Almost drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Total awareness.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     I almost passed through the tunnel but wasn't allowed to pass.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't get to actually 'see' Jesus. But I knew it was Him. I was told that it wasn't my time yet and to go back.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a bright beautiful light.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I had to go back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     God and Jesus aren't being represented correctly by most religions.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have been warned of personal danger on three occasions by angels.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was almost drowning. The best part was the feeling of love and peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They believe me.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hector_g_nde.html