{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hector_a_uncle_nde.html","mytitle":"Hector A Uncle NDE 5413","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hector A Uncle NDE 5413  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hector A Uncle NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			3019 Hector A Uncle NDE 5413  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Dear Friends,

I am taking this opportunity to relay my uncle’s NDE experience. I am very curious about it and consider it to be of general interest since it pertains to a supernatural situation.

This situation happened in the club where my uncle worked from a very young age maintaining the property, which sat on four hectares. One afternoon he went to the tool shed. Once he got inside two drums filled with 200 liters of gasoline and kerosene began to burn. Quickly the fire spread and my uncle was trapped. He tried to protect his face with his arms and went through the fire looking for the door. Just as he was totally engulfed in flames he found the exit and fell to the ground. Some of his friends put out the fire. My uncle was still conscious and in tremendous pain. The firemen and the medics arrived.  That’s when my uncle went into cardiac arrest. He died and the medics attempted resuscitation for 15 minutes. He came back to life and was transported to the hospital. During the next 6 months of painful treatments, with fourth degree burns over 80% of his body, he had a miraculous recovery.

After some years, he decided to recount his experience. He’d kept it to himself because he thought people would label him crazy. The moment that help came, he fainted and felt his body traveling through a tunnel filled with light. He observed completely illuminated cities, and these cities merged with the whiter light. This great white light gave him the feeling of peace. There was no pain and everything was in harmony. When he finally arrived at the end he was received by a being which he couldn’t describe, but he knew this spirit had the keys to Heaven (Saint Peter?). His deceased mother and father were at his side and welcomed him, and he was ecstatic. The being showed him the universe and he saw many deceased people, well known throughout history - Indians, Romans, soldiers, etc. He saw them all, but not with his regular eyes, and he could speak with them all in the same language. Each knew who the other was, and he spoke with every one of them without using his voice, telepathically. The being showed him the immensity of this place, where all the people seemed to be in an infinite field filled with colors, trees, people who were reading and singing, and angels that floated above them. There was peace, love and harmony. He traveled with the being without having to walk - it was like floating in the clouds. 

Suddenly, as he was floating, a gigantic portal opened and my uncle asked the being if they could go into the portal. The being didn’t think it was a good idea, but my uncle insisted and they traversed the portal. With that, the sky disappeared. The portal was an immense place, dark and very hot, where you could hear screams and crying. Millions of hands surrounded my uncle and tried to reach for him and grab him, people who were desperately asking for water. He also saw gigantic cauldrons in which people were burning and begging for water. He could see people suffering in every which way, all kinds of tortures and ailments. He saw people suspended upside down and ready to plunge into an infinite void, forever gone, people surrounded by vipers that eternally bit them, many people eternally face to face with their fears. When he thought he had seen enough he asked the being to take him out of there and right away they were back in the sky, or Heaven. The being asked him if he had seen enough and if he wanted to see things on Earth, and my uncle responded that yes, that he wanted to see his grandchildren grow up and to help them as much as he could. He then knew it was not his time. Immediately he was back in his body and looking at the paramedics and their amazement. Even though he was only gone for 15 minutes if felt like three or four days. There were many other things but my uncle kept them to himself. I hope this story will be useful to you in your investigations. His death is a verifiable fact.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  año aproximado 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The accident was caused by combustible tanks.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       According to my uncle, he was conscious at every moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     15 minutes seemed like three or four days.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     One could say that he could see without seeing through his eyes, he spoke without a mouth, everybody understood one another, the colors were beautiful, and it seemed there was a field in summertime, with depth, it was solid. The people were small like clouds or plasma but identifiable.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a trip through illuminated cities, huge cities, until you reached the white light full of love.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He recognized his deceased parents, who welcomed him. He was happy to see and be with them again. He thought the being was St. Peter, who was acting as a guide. He accompanied my uncle throughout. He could see and speak to historical figures, who recounted their stories to him.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   The white light at the end of the journey. It’s enveloping but not blinding.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     vio como era el cielo y el infierno

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace and harmony. There was no pain and sadness. It was a place you did not want to leave.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I didn’t ask him, out of respect.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     He crossed two barriers to finally enter the light and see beyond the light, and also when he entered the portal.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I didn’t ask him, out of respect.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes He enjoys every manifestation and joy, the sunrise, the song of the birds, everything that you take for granted.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     He did have premonitions that came true but he did not concentrate on this gift.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After many years. It was received well by people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Totally real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     He believes that Heaven exists and in life after death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       As in my case, there are many older people who have had NDEs and who can’t tell their stories because they don’t have internet access. There should be some kind of alternative way for these people to communicate, maybe through their children, friends, relatives, there should be a form for third parties.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hector_a_uncle_nde.html