{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heather_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Heather W Probable NDE 9515","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heather W Probable NDE 9515  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heather W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5123 Heather W Probable NDE 9515  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was a Deputy in Oregon. While on duty I was injured in the ribs. I returned to Iowa where my mother and brother were living at the time. Three months after the initial injury I started to feel a lot of discomfort. I thought that it was normal and that in time the pain would go away. Around July 12th, I was physically uncomfortable and ill. I began throwing up and feeling very weak. Since I had never experienced symptoms like this before, I went to the emergency room. 

  The results of the blood test were that my hemoglobin was low.  I was told that it was not concerning since the hospital policy for blood intervention was a hemoglobin of 7 or lower. I was in the upper 7 range, so they sent me home. 

  I was still feeling uncomfortable.  A few days later, I couldn’t keep soup or water down. I had a headache unlike any headache I’ve ever experienced. It felt like my ears were clogged and that the pressure inside was pushing out. I even felt like I could hear my heart beat. My mom called my primary care and I was given some medicine that helped me to keep  some water and ice down.  I also got a few hours of sleep. 

  That Sunday morning, July 15th I awoke abruptly because my English bulldog was picking a fight with my mom's terrier. I separated the two and went to use the restroom. The moment I sat down, I immediately felt that I was going to black out and/or throw up. I called out for my mother, who came running into the room.

 I was in her arms when I remember losing all ability and control of my body. She recalls that I threw up on her and then went limp. She was unable to hold me, so she lowered me to the ground. Her home was just down the street from the hospital so she called out to my brother for help to rush me to the emergency room.  They struggled to get me to the car.  She told me that I was mumbling and going in-and-out of consciousness. 

  I remember being lifted out of the car into a wheelchair. I remember being in-and-out of consciousness. When my hemoglobin came back it was a 3.6. To my knowledge it is still a record for the lowest hemoglobin that a person had lived through it. 

  When the emergency room staff were working on me, I felt a warmth on my left arm but it wasn’t like a normal presence. It felt like my grandfather whom I had lost the year prior. I also recall asking if my cousin was here. I lost my cousin to bone cancer when I was age 17 and she was the closest thing to a sister I’ve had. 

  Shortly after this, they had to put an emergency, and very painful, central IV line into my body. I remember them telling me not to fight them.   After I awoke and was informed that, 'We lost you there.' I didn’t feel lost though. I felt warm, content, and perfect. I felt like I was in a warm spring and I had all of those that I loved in the room with me. I can’t recall seeing anyone physically, but I felt them there. 

  My body swelled and I was freezing. I received five units of blood and two units of plasma. 

  Since that day, I’ve been confused. Last February, I had a seizure in the airport for the same thing.  This time, I saw a tunnel.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 07/15/18  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Internal Bleeding  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   This was my second life threatening event and the most “significant” event.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See my description that is the best that I can explain.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See my story that is the best way I can articulate it.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe when I coded  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things were bright and then dime. That I recall.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It sound muffled.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Only during the second event do I recall a tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was more so felt it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Content  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Jewish     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Jewish   Mother is a Christian and father is Jewish. I prefer the Jewish faith.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I am not sure how to put it into words.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   More felt it  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I don't know for sure.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Possibly the spring feeling I described above.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I don't know for sure.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Possibly but I am more confused than anything.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I don't know for sure.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I felt my loved ones and that is what I made it all so calming.  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I feel like I am still myself only more evolved or mature. I move past things smoother now and try not to fret the small things.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love harder and forgive faster.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can give it not justice.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It’s more of a feeling that I struggle to articulate.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     N/A  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        See description.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With two close friends  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Continue to seek knowledge years after.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heather_w_probable_nde.html