{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heather_s_nde_194.html","mytitle":"Heather S NDE 194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heather S NDE 194  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heather S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1428 Heather S NDE 194  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I flipped, hit my head and landed in the water. I don't remember hitting the deck though (that's what I was told) I just remember standing on the deck and then I felt like I was being spun around, not knowing which way was up. Then there was a instant calm, I looked up and there was this light that looked almost like I was looking down a wave of surf or a 'tunnel'. I saw at the end what look to be a beach, grass, and a man standing there, I could hear him tell me that I wasn't supposed to be there yet. He didn't talk, but I knew what he was saying. At the same time, I could also see the pool, like I was above it, about twenty feet or so, looking straight down at myself. Then I felt myself going through the 'tunnel' but then I heard my brother's voice and I was 'snapped back' into by body. My brother said it happened very fast, like within a minute, but it seemed to be much longer.

Since that time I have had OBE's and several dreams about drowning and coming walking out of the water, onto a beach and having this man (who I decided was Jesus) walking up to him and having him tell me to go back. I also have had several 'visions' of seeing other people who are drowning.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I did a back-flip off of the deck into our pool and hit the back of my head and fell into the pool. My brother said I 'blacked out for a little while' (more like a minute or so).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I know I wasn't in my body simply because I could breath, I was looking down on the scene.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember being confused at first, but quickly I became very alert and remember the experience very clearly even today.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The experience lasted just a minute but it seemed to last several, if not hours. It was like time wasn't even real.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Wind, a calm wind and a tone (I sometimes still here this out of the blue).

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel made up of this warm embracing light. I didn't have to think about moving through it, I just did.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a man standing on the beach at the end of the tunnel looking at me. I believe it to be Jesus; he told me I wasn't supposed to be there yet, that he had a mission for me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light from the tunnel, it glowed.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The beach I saw, I know was not located on Earth, I just knew, and still know.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared then, during the experience, a calm wonderful warm feeling. I can't really describe it. Like I was being hugged by very big arms.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     But that is not to be disclosed right now.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I'm not sure, I didn't see events, I felt them. When I came out of it, I began to do certain things, and they are still getting stronger to this day. Yes I did learn things, but that information is for me.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have been able to see glimpses of future events (usually 48-72 hours before they happen) I don't really keep up with the news but I would have to say the percentage is around ninety-five percent if not one hundred percent have come true. But there is more to that I wish not to say right now.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More than I wish, I will describe in detail, if asked later.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was that feeling, the one I described as getting hugged above. The worst part was at the beginning, when I was confused.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heather_s_nde_194.html