{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heather_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Heather M Possible NDE 8009","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heather M Possible NDE 8009  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heather M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4157 Heather M Possible NDE 8009  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had that unpleasantly familiar feeling that everything in me, both physical and otherwise, was draining southward.  I felt like I was going to have a nasty sugar crash. It came on faster than ever before, with pinpricks of white at the edge of my vision. I raised my left arm for assistance, and can just barely recall getting enough words out to the technician that I was having a hypoglycemic crash.  Then there was nothing.

There was no bright light or floating over my body.  I wasn't watching what was happening. There were no angels. No sound. No up. No down. There was simply an absence of everything.

It was black. The purest black I’d ever seen. I did have the cliché sensation of not being in my body, but it was more like the feeling that my body was just gone. 'I' was gone. I didn’t feel like I was dead. Literally, the word 'gone' is the only way I have to describe it, and the only thing that I can say I was feeling at the time. I don’t know where 'gone' is, or what it means. All I know is that it’s nowhere I could ever identify as being anywhere near anything 'here.' It was absolutely terrifying. If I’d been able to think properly, I’m sure I would have been even more frightened, but my brain was sapped well beyond its limits already. 

From my estimations and evidence gathered later on, I am fairly certain that my sugar levels were further into the danger zone than they ever have been in my life. I highly suspect that had I been any worse than I already was, I would have either slipped into a coma, suffered brain damage, or both.  

True panic began to set in as I couldn’t get away from being 'gone.' I didn’t know what to do, or even what I could do. I was mentally backpedalling in horror when I started to see pewter streaks at the edge of my vision. I couldn’t move, but I began to think that I might at least be making some kind of sound. In what seemed like several minutes, I came to and slowly began to realize that I was back here.  I could see glimpses of things in front of me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/21/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Dangerously low blood sugar due to my stupid attempt at donating plasma, despite having regular hypoglycemic episodes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt more aware of things (or rather, the LACK of things) without having any input from my surroundings. I can't put it into words-- that's just how it was.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Probably right in the middle of the experience, in the middle of the black where there was nothing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't EXIST where I went.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could clearly see that there wasn't anything TO see. I can't really describe a lack of sensation.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was nothing to hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure nothing, and then feeling pure terror

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual, but not religious.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm less spiritual than I used to be. I feel like I understand fewer answers than I did before.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Slightly less spiritual, still not religious.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I'd like to believe that any type of 'after life' experience is unique to the person that has it, but I'd never heard of anything remotely like what happened to me; Not to say that nobody else has experienced anything similar, but it certainly isn't widely talked about.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was a little confused about my spiritual beliefs before, and now I'm EXTREMELY confused about them.  I don't even really care to approach the subject. I mentally just want to throw my hands up and yell, 'Darn if I KNOW!!!'

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I'm slightly more likely to embrace doing something fun or meaningful, because I realize life is so short.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   English and language in general are used to describe our thoughts and the world around us. Words used by humans aren't prepared to describe a LACK of things.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    About 50% of the time, if I'm greatly stressed in my life, I'll have absolutely horrible memory recall of this experience only just a few months later. It's been over two years since my experience, and I remember it exactly the same as if it happened today.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I'm not scared of death, itself, anymore, but I'm extremely concerned about whatever it is that comes after.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with a couple friends a few hours after it happened. They were all concerned, of course. I was mentally/emotionally drained at the time, so I don't really remember anything else about their reactions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I'd seen a few stories on TV and read a few random articles about other peoples' experiences. I didn't think much about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Whether or not my experience happened 'only in my head' or 'only because of the condition' I was physically in at the time, it still happened. It's a thing that my mind went through, and I remember it, regardless of why or how.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It sucked, and I hope it never happens again. I hope it doesn't happen to anyone else, either.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing that I can think of      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heather_m_possible_nde.html