{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1heather_i_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Heather I Probable NDE 5041","mylang":"de"}
          	        Heather I Probable NDE 5041  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Heather I Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2610 Heather I Probable NDE 5041  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It changed my whole way of thinking and my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'August 30, 2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.    Other: TBI  Associated with a traumatic brain injury with no medical documentation of whether I 'died' or not.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Unsure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unsure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Sometimes it would seem like hours and just be minutes or even the other way around.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Majorly detailed and vivid colors. I saw the universe as if I were floating in it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard telepathically.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was made of light and looked like fractals.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A lot of other beings. One I knew and most I didn't. A whole lot was communicated.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel was made of light and looked like fractals.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The universe & it was also heaven, in what seemed like another dimension the was within the dimension of our universe.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. I felt like I knew everything and recognized this knowing was different from what my thoughts and feelings had been before. I begged to come back, but only because I have two young daughters.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was not judged by God, but rather, by myself. I saw the way things 'really are' and thought, 'Why didn't I ever figure that out.' It seems so simple. They were things about spirituality, humanity and physics.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not sure yet.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Buddhist/Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Was a practicing Zen Buddhist, with a strong Christian heritage, but didn't go to church. Now I feel deeply spiritual, but not religious, and go to church every time my traumatic brain injury lets me.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual & not religious

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Was a practicing Zen Buddhist, with a strong Christian heritage, but didn't go to church. Now I feel deeply spiritual, but not religious, and go to church every time my traumatic brain injury lets me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   To use the info I saw and learned for the greater good of humanity. I saw that we were just pieces of one person.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel more connected to everyone - even strangers, but some of my friends and family think I've gone nuts.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Translating all of the telepathic knowing into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     An 'understanding' of physics, psychic stuff and painting. I've painted over sixty paintings in five months.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A couple of months. Good and bad reactions, but yes, some seem influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Very little knowledge and it didn't affect my experience except to help me come to terms with what happened to me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      Traumatic brain injury caused memory and cognitive issues. I chalked it up to that at first, then I started having more and finally said - okay, it's real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's hard to quantify this, but I saw things that are really happening.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   LSD in college. It was very similar, but still pales in comparison.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heather_i_probable_nde.html