{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hd_nde.html","mytitle":"HD NDE 6436","mylang":"de"}
          	        HD NDE 6436  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					HD NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3161 HD NDE 6436  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I and a few friends were having a bonfire. There were around six to ten people there. I and four other friends thought it would be fun to do drugs. Well, what we didn't know was that the stuff we had was some kind of spice! After I took around two hits, the room started spinning, I couldn't hear anything, and I was seeing triple. I didn't think anything was wrong.  I just thought it must be normal. Then I started getting really dizzy and, according to all my friends, I spread my arms out so I was in a T-shape and fell backwards. Everyone thought I was joking around, so they were just laughing and trying to get me up, but soon they realized that it was serious. 

All I remember of when I fell backwards is just my whole mind going black, and then all the bad things that I have done starting to replay in my head. I couldn't do anything; it felt as if my body was paralyzed. I tried waking up because I thought it was just a dream, but then I realized I was dying. I started freaking out. I was screaming and crying, trying to get out of this horrible thing. Then everything stopped and all I saw was a bright light and a man standing there. He said, 'This is your last chance, take everything back, take it all back. Think about everything you have done HD, take it all back.' It just kept repeating in my head. It felt as if I was being shocked. My whole body starting shaking and I couldn't do anything about it. I was having a seizure. 

I kept yelling and thinking in my mind about everything I wanted to do in my life, and all the things I wanted to take back, and why I didn't think this should be the end for me. I was yelling for my mom, dad, family all my friends. I started thinking about how I wanted to go to college, finish school and become a chiropractor, I just thinking about everything. I couldn't believe this was happening. Once I noticed that it wasn't working: things weren't going back to normal, I just tried to go to sleep. I thought everything was over; I thought I couldn't do anything. 

I fell asleep. While sleeping I saw my grandpa and he told me that I had to keep trying for him. I knew I had to come back for him. I kept telling God that dying wasn't what I wanted, and that I knew I had to change. Suddenly I saw a bright light, and I could hear the outside world again. I opened my eyes and sat up. It was all back to normal. I saw the bonfire and all my friends sitting around me, talking and asking me if I was okay. I then realized that this all had really just happened. I just sat there on the bench after that, thinking about it all, shaking, wanting to cry and thanking the Lord for giving me another chance at life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 29, 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Drug or medication overdose    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   At the time of the NDE, a few friends and I were doing drugs. My other friend had the same effects as I had, of the room spinning and seeing in threes, but mine just went too far and made me have a NDE.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Once I started waking up, it felt as if a burst of fire and coolness just blew through my body, unlike normal everyday consciousness, which just feels mellow and soothing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Once I saw the last bright light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Everything seemed to be speeding at an incredible rate. Then it slowed down when I started getting consciousness back.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision during the experience at first was blurry, then right when I saw everything, it became clear and almost too bright to look at: unlike my normal vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My everyday hearing, I can understand everything clearly, unlike during the occurrence when I couldn't hear anything except for my voice and the Man who talked to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and my Grandpa.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sad, scared, worried

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Everything about myself.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The man telling me that it was my last chance and to take everything back kind of made me think that I had one more chance, and it was my choice if I wanted this to happen or not.    

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe that he is there because he was talking to me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The bright light and that i was able to see and hear Jesus and my grandpa made me believe that there is life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I realized that i need to start thanking my mom and dad for everything that they do, and that i actually need to start appreciating things more cause i wouldn't be able to live without those kinds of people in my life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have decided to change some of the people I hang out with including the older boy that I was dating.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was so much that happened, and just so much going on in my head, it was hard to get everything in so people can actually understand what I'm trying to say.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bright light and that I was able to see and hear Jesus and my grandpa made me believe that there is life after death.  I believe that God is there because he was talking to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was the next day, they were shocked.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I realized that I need to start thanking my mom and dad for everything that they do.  I actually need to start appreciating the things they do more, because I wouldn't be able to live without those kinds of people in my life.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hd_nde.html