{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hd_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"HD M Possible NDE 5236","mylang":"de"}
          	        HD M Possible NDE 5236  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					HD M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2737 HD M Possible NDE 5236  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a life guard in New Jersey. Every day before the pool opened, I would hyperventilate dive in and swim the fifty-meter pool under water. That day I decided to take it a little farther. I would swim the fifty meters turn and swim another ten strokes then surface. I swam the fifty meters then counted three more strokes as I swam those strokes I looked to my left and saw the deeper blue of the diving area (eleven to twelve feet deep). Next thing I was aware of: I was lying face down on the hot concrete while another life guard, Jeff, was giving me back pressure arm lift - a then current method of artificial respiration. What I remembered of the experience was that I was inside something and looking out, what was outside was moving very fast. At the time I correlated it to being inside a railroad car and watching the scenery go by. It was not scenery just the sensation of rapid movement.

Last year I ran across Dr. Melvin Morse's websites, he had two in one of them the opening image is a person very small moving through a tunnel - that was my experience.

That happened to me between my junior and senior year in high school - the pool manager was so mad at me I wasn't asked back to work a second summer.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Early July 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    passed out underwater due to hypoxia - Hypoxia was due to deliberately swimming underwater while holding my breath.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   If I hadn't been pulled from the water I would have been dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       See three.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I certainly was not in an earthly space and time was moving fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     What I remembered of the experience was that I was inside something and looking out, what was outside was moving very fast. At the time I correlated it to being inside a railroad car and watching the scenery go by. It was not scenery just the sensation of rapid movement.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Not much just wondered what was going on.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I principally ignored what I had been taught around religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Esoteric Buddhist - Not the book learned type the one who experiences what the religions talk about

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     However there was time delay. I learned I was clairvoyant in 1993 while attending the Barbara Brennan School of Healing. I may have become clairvoyant while working as a commercial diver for nine years - trying to see in the dark. Also in 1993 I found out I was very psychic and all the things that encompass the entire new age movement came to me very easily. Lots more details on www.healingwithgrace.com. However only about twenty percent of what I do is talked about on the website.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom that evening - she wasn't that interested she was too busy playing bridge. I have talked about it freely since then when the occasion comes up.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I always believe my experiences are real - some may not correlate very well to this reality - so what, they are still real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Last summer I went back to the same pool and stood in the same spot where I was resuscitated on approximately the same day during the summer - this time I had a temporary Kundalini rising (I have found very rare accurate information on these experiences and understood the mechanism). According to Joan Harrigan NDEs yield a stable rising of the Kundalini to the fifth chakra (throat), of course that is not always true, also some NDErs deny the experience for long periods or indefinite periods of time which would prevent that higher consciousness.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hd_m_possible_nde.html