{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hb_nde.html","mytitle":"HB NDE 2445","mylang":"de"}
          	        HB NDE 2445  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					HB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						740  HB NDE  2445  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was in a friend's house with another three friends. I needed to go to the bathroom. I entered my friend's bathroom. The light was on. All of a sudden I heard a clatter on the floor, as if something fell over, but I could see nothing: I was conscious of being upright in total darkness (later I was told that the noise was my body falling to the ground and upsetting a trashcan).

It was dark and I wondered what I was doing there. Then for some reason, I took a big, wide step to my left. I was in another place. The sun was shining, it was warm, and it was beautiful. People were all happy, content, and busy. Many children. I remember my dead grandfather with his arm round me - he was showing me a building. There were many children. I didn't question anything, it was all 'meant to be'. It felt like coming home. But then I heard a voice say, 'You will remember nothing of this,' and a wrench. I was back in my body but I didn't know it.

I was just conscious of being inside something, totally quiet, totally still. Then I breathed and that was incredible. It felt like the universe expanding in me. Then I opened my eyes and saw my friends above me, worried. Their lips were moving fast and their faces were excited but I could hear nothing. All of a sudden, someone turned on the volume: I heard them speaking mid-sentence. Really odd. I 'knew' I had 'died'. I was really afraid 'they' would come back for me. This was in contrast with my personal beliefs but I can't ignore that it happened to me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1994  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death Cessation of breathing for 3/4 minutes  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Time was not of the issue. I didn't breathe for about four minutes but I seemed to be away for longer.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything vivid and ultra real, colorful.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    People spoke to me but I can't remember what they said.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was in a void, then I stepped to my left.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Loads of people, and children. My dead grandfather.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just a beautiful landscape, grass, flowers, water and trees.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, rightness, calm, love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     If that was death that's okay!!  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'll be curious when I die.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'll be curious when I die.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   'It's that easy' and 'why don't we know it's this simple'?  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It seemed so taken for granted in an odd way - as if it had always been and always would be. In this way it is hard to relate to everyday life situations.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I left my body several times when I was young and had some unusual experiences of a mystical nature.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        How I felt was unrepeatable.  I am perplexed that this voice told me I'd forget everything - and I forgot what I said to those people and what they said to me, and what they were doing.  It was so real, when I woke I was shivering and petrified that I'd go back. I was too young.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talk quite freely about facts, so I don't usually hide my NDE when the conversation is right and the people are liberal enough to listen without prejudice. Some believe.  Some don't.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Though I'd heard of NDEs I had no idea I was going through one when it happened.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Gratitude I was still alive. However, the NDE was so realistic, I took it for granted and wasn't surprised at it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Though I am currently investigating recent discoveries about the brain and its functions, too many people describe similar things, and I can't ignore that I lived through it!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hb_nde.html