{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hazeliene_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Hazeliene M NDE3725","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hazeliene M NDE3725  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hazeliene M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1720 Hazeliene M NDE 3725  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at home and about to play my favorite online game when I suddenly found it very difficult to breath. I just ignored it, but then it became more serious. I felt like there was no air and I tried hard to breathe forcefully. I didn't know what to do that time as my vision turned darker. So I lay down on the bed instead, but then felt the motion of my bowels and I smelt very bad. That smell was very different.  Once I smelt it, I felt nauseous. I still thought not to vomit on the bed, although I knew I had already soiled it. I looked around and it was very dark, like night already, but I knew it was only 4pm. I chose not to vomit on the bed, so I forced myself to get up and go to the bathroom instead.  At the same time, I wanted and needed to take a bath. I removed all of my clothes. I then totally blacked out, fell down and knocked my head on the floor. That's the last thing I remember before I returned to consciousness.

Suddenly I was in a very dark tunnel going up, up, up, way up above. Then came a very dark place, which I know was a tunnel. After passing through it, it changed to very bright light. I thought it was the sun, but it was not. I have no idea where that light came from. Someone spoken to me for a while, and that voice came from the light. You know what I felt when I saw that light?  I felt that someone loves me very much, but I had no idea who it was. I was very overwhelmed with that bright light. While I was there, I felt the love, and that love I never felt before. That light welcomed me very warmly and loved me very much.  My words to the light before I woke up were, 'I want to stay here, but I love my two kids'. With that, I suddenly woke up.  

It was already 8.30pm that time. I was very dirty, and very smelly all over the place. I was still breathless. I was very confused and didn't know what to do. I panicked, so I opened the door and asked my maid for help. I opened the door, fully naked (I never felt shame after this experience). My maid told me that my face and my whole body had turned black, and when she touched me she said that I was very cold, like dead person. She started to clean my dirty bed. I told to my maid everything that had happened to me. I still don't know what an NDE was at that time so I didn't tell her the whole story. A few months after the incident, I slowly told her what happened to me. 

I'm still asking myself what really happened to me that day of May 2, 2007. 

It was very scary experience. I thought I wouldn't be able to see my two kids anymore. Was it true that the light was God? Was this the reason I felt very overwhelmed? I felt that only that light ever loved me, and no-one else does. People know only to beat me, hurt me, criticize me, offend me and much more. Nobody loved me in that way before. How I wish my two kids and me could go there and feel that love forever. I didn't like to leave my children behind and that's why I preferred to take care of them first. As a single mother/parent I have to love my children unconditionally. My mission is to raise them up in a proper manner and help poor people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2nd May 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was  breathless, I was too tired to breathe and had no air supply.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I can't remember, I just recall it started at 4pm and it lasted for more than four hours.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sometimes I saw green, purple, white and the image of God.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing sounded like an airplane landing and taking off.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a very dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright light, from which I felt love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I thought I was dying and wouldn't be able to see my children anymore, but happy because I felt happiness and love during my NDE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It was going to be a genuine revival and the beginning of my new life full of joy and happiness.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It is difficult to explain. Maybe God has given me work for him and that is my mission.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My feelings towards my separated husband have changed. I feel he is now a very close friend, and not an ex or husband. I have slowly forgotten about people who treated me very badly. I feel that I am starting a new life. I can see myself and that I have changed my attitude. The usual hot tempered me became very tame. Even when I know that people are cheating me, I still believe them and show them that I am ignorant. I pretend I don't know what they are doing behind my back.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The bright light. I won't forget the love from that light. Until this moment, the love from that light is still in me, and will be forever in my life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People did not believe all that I said and thought I was crazy. I think only my maid believed me, because she has seen my situation after the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I saw astounding, extremely rare events. I can tell you, here and now, that not all of these events are going to be catastrophic.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   After my experience, I believe I can cure. I tried to cure my son when he injured his arm. I cured my daughter every time she felt pain in any part of her body. I cured my maid's eyes, through the application of oil and by chanting. Maybe it was just coincidence that I cured them, but I really do believe I can cure.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hazeliene_m_nde.html