{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harry_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Harry T NDE 9339","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harry T NDE 9339  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harry T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5003 Harry T NDE 9339  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My wife traveled to Atlanta from our home in Maryland to celebrate Thanksgiving with her parents. I flew home to MD, leaving her there, to return to my job at the USCG Intelligence Coordination Center in DC.  On December 8, 2019, I finished dinner and bent over to place the dishes in the dishwasher.  I felt my chest compress and grew dizzy. Thinking I was having an asthma attack, I went to the living room, turned around to sit on the couch, and passed-out. I believe I died. 

  I suddenly was aware that I was in a place surrounding by bits of light.  I saw/felt/experienced my-self spread eagle, rotating slowly counter clock-wise while the bits of light were relating my life.  The bits of light closest to me were my parents, grand-parent, family who all passed before - and connected to them farther away were close friends, and connected to them were people who had influenced me and whom I had influenced (student, acquaintances, etc.) - and the people whom they had interacted with, but unknown to me, but connected to me by my interaction with everyone I had known and met in my life and had gone on before.  All of those bits of life were relating how my life and actions had affected theirs. A cacophony of words and stories, but each understandable and distinct at the same time. I was not feeling fearful, nor distressed, but was actively engaged in hearing, not so much with my ears but my whole body and my soul. I was not bewildered, I was accepting this as what was necessary, what I needed to do.  I have no comprehension for how long I was experiencing this relation of my life.  However, at one point a brilliant flash of light, an all-encompassing light, and voice bellowed, 'Not yet. Go back. Call 911.' Whereupon all the bits of light repeated 'Call 911'. 

  I next found myself half-on, half-off the couch in my living room. It took me a few minutes to regain control of my body enough to enable me to sit upright enough to grab at my phone on the coffee table.  After a number of attempts, I was able to get my phone, and again with a number of attempts and with great difficulty I managed to call 911.  Telling the dispatcher, I couldn't breathe and was having a severe asthma attack.  The paramedics came, placed me on back-board and then  a stretcher, transported me to our local hospital.  After a CT scan the emergency room doctor placed me on heparin drip and had me flown by helicopter to George Washington University Hospital with a Saddle Pulmonary Embolism.  I was in ICU there for four days, the first 3 of which I was forbidden to move, eat or talk unnecessarily for fear of dislodging the embolism.  I continue to wonder why I was sent back.    

At the time of your experience was there an associated life-threatening event?    Yes  Saddle PE.    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes     If I could express it, it wouldn't be difficult.  Human language, our puny little brains, lack the ability.  We are all just stupid humans in this respect.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?   	When the voice told me to go back and call 911.    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?         More consciousness and alertness than normal   It is difficult to explain - I was comprehending with my totality, body/mind/soul/emotions.  Words are inadequate...    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.      I was experiencing non-dimensional existence.    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.      It was total.  Again, it was non-dimensional.    

Did you see or hear any earthly events that were occurring during a time that your consciousness / awareness was apart from your physical / earthly body?    Yes   I was in a place outside of dimension, physicality and time. Beyond the quanta, but encompassing the created and non-created. It was both zero-point and infinity.  It was a place which was the staging area for something beyond the imaginable, the nameable.    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Involvement. And a sense of beginning.       

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No       

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was the essence of light. Totally encompassing. But it was not light as we see it physically. It is how light is before it separates from darkness.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin  Yes, I got the sense the bits of light were spirits of those who has passed, also of angels and other entities.  The great light and voice was Michael the Archangel.    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      Yes   Michael the Archangel.  He was running the show.           

Did you become aware of past events in your life during your experience?    Yes   Everything. See my essay please.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?      A clearly mystical or unearthly realm  Please see previous responses.    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  I was outside of time, it had no meaning.  I could have been there a micro-second or an eternity.    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No      

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain  Yes, the experience was a type of boundary, but one that is neither physical or contingent on structure.    

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I was told to 'Go back.'    

Did scenes from the future come to you?     No        

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness suggesting that there either is (or is not) continued existence after earthly life (“life after death”)?     Yes   The event was a staging area. A preparation for that which was to come - but not necessarily a judgment.  It was a relation of who I had been and how my existence had affected others.    

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that God or a supreme being either does (or does not) exist?     Yes   God, at that point, was without question.    

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that you either did (or did not) exist prior to this lifetime?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness either does (or does not) exist?     Yes   Mystical connectivity, unity/oneness are not even remotely capable of describing what I experienced. The totality is un-describable.    

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s meaning or purpose?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s difficulties, challenges, or hardships?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding love?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any other specific information / awareness that you have not shared in other questions that is relevant to living our earthly lives?     No       

Did you have a sense of knowing special knowledge or purpose?     Yes   I was sent back with a purpose, but it has not as yet been revealed to me.  For all I know, it may never be...I'm waiting.    

What occurred during your experience included:     Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience   I had not been aware of how much influence we have on each other. To include how our influence extends to people and events of which we will never have knowledge.    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?      I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   The event is crystal clear to me.    

Discuss any changes that might have occurred in your life after your experience:    I am left with a greater sense of wonder.  I understand things better now - people, events, the Bible, myself...    

My experience directly resulted in:    Large changes in my life    

Did you have any changes in your values or beliefs after the experience that occurred as a result of the experience?    Yes   Confirmed what I had been believing and valued    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The desire to know why I was sent back.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?      Yes  Only with a few members of the family and select friends.  Some are sceptical.  Most are non-responive. A couple accept.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?      Yes   I had heard about it...but hadn't given it much thought.  The closest event I had experience with was when my father, on his death-bed, began talking with his deceased mother.  She was there, but I couldn't see her or hear her.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened:    Experience was definitely real   I continue to explore my experience.  This is how I found NDERF.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience at the current time:    Experience was definitely real   It is real, and, in a great sense, it is still happening.  Some part of me feels like it is still experiencing the event - I continue to be involved.    

Have your relationships changed specifically as a result of your experience?    Yes   I am more careful and empathetic with people I interact with in the course of the day.    

Have your religious beliefs/spiritual practices changed specifically as a result of your experience?    Yes   I spend more time in prayer and research and very rarely attend church services.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?      No       

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, it is unfinished, but I am astounded by my own patience.    

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?      Uncertain   Most of the event cannot be put into words and dialogue.         </span>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harry_t_nde.html