{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harry_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Harry S Probable NDE 5267","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harry S Probable NDE 5267  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harry S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2760 Harry S Probable NDE 5267  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Out of body experience.  My soul or spirit made its way through mist and a tunnel. I arrived at the end, facing a solid oak door. Next to the oak door was a spirit, shadow figure who knew me really well. No words were spoken or exchanged. All communication was through mind communication between us. The oak door opened for me. I peered through. It was a beautiful place with music that sounded peaceful and blissful. I was feeling euphoric and wanted to step through. I was reassured by the spirit to go through the door. 'You deserve this. You can go back in any year you wish or into any being.' It felt awesome and overwhelming. I was so close to going through the door, but stopped. A sudden thought came into my mind. I can't leave yet. I have not prepared for this. I have to sort things out for my family. An urgency took over me and the spirit reassured me. It said, 'If you want to go back, leave now. But you will have to fight.'

As soon as I blinked my eyes, I was transported into another dimension and another world. All I will say on this is that it was a horrible, dark and desolate place where I was alone. It stank. There were fires burning with grey clouds of burning rubber. All my feelings and thoughts were filled with the most fearful emotions I have ever experienced. This is where the fight began.

Upon returning to my body, which felt like going back into a shell, in a blink of the eye, I was met by another being who gave me intense feelings of reassurance and touched me on my shoulder. I looked into her eyes and then I feel asleep. I awoke to find myself talking to a family member.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/04/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More colorful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Misty corridor.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Spirit or soul of someone who knows me very well who I can't be a hundred percent sure off.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Drawn towards light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     as described above various dimensions

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pain, anger, sad, sorrow, intense happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I feel I have to help others and to pass knowledge of this on to those who need it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Some things I've wanted and thought of have come in this life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel like I've been chosen but I'm not sure why yet.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see through others easily and connect.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Both life and death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three-quarter days after coming back, very emotional when I spoke of this.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Heard about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Amazing feeling like given a chance to experience what happens when you die, how people you know reacted to this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can explain more to those who need to know if it can help them only.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harry_s_probable_nde.html