{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harry_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Harry B NDE 2873","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harry B NDE 2873  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harry B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						991  Harry B NDE  2873  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was sixteen at the time. I went to a party for New Year's Eve. My friends had rented a motel room. I drank a lot of beer, vodka and gin. I passed out in a corner of the room. Someone called the police and they came to break up the party. Everyone there ran away and the only person the police found was me, unconscious in the corner. They could not wake me, so they called an ambulance. They found my ID and called my parents who met me at the hospital. I was in the hospital for two days and nights detoxing. The doctors told me that I was very lucky to survive.

During the time I was unconscious, I found myself without a body in the middle of black, misty darkness. The darkness was infinite like space. The blackness was of a color that I had never seen. It had a density, but also clarity. I could see in all directions and move at any speed in any direction. I was hovering in the middle of space without a body. Even though I didn't have a body, I could see as if I had eyes. I didn't need to breathe. I felt perfect peace, love and happiness. In the distance, I saw a big light - the size of a door. I didn't go to the light because I didn't feel the need to go to it. I didn't feel the presence of other beings.

I awoke in the hospital and felt the weight of my body, as if I was held down. I felt awful. I left a place of no pain and entered a body of pain. Before the experience, I didn't know if there was an afterlife. After the experience, I knew there is an afterlife. Looking back on the experience, I could have stayed there forever. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/31/2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       Alcohol poisoning  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Passed out due to intoxication, ambulance called, in hospital for two days.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt more aware alive and aware in the blackness than in my daily life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in space out of my body. It felt more real than life itself.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No sense of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perfect vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Did not hear anything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Saw a door of light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ...just black, endless space  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure love, joy and peace - no pain. It felt like home.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none(but was raised Mormon)  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in a higher power. I have stronger desire to do good.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'none, but believe in God'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in a higher power. I have stronger desire to do good.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can talk to people easier.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Felt feelings I never felt before.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Started to see spirit beings.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just being there was significant.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately told my parents about it when I awoke in the hospital.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   They were different from my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Was very real to me, as real today (two years later) as it was then.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harry_b_nde.html