{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harold_nde.html","mytitle":"Harold NDE 38","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harold NDE 38  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Harold NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						87  Harold NDE  38  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


I had a temporary job driving an 18 wheeler truck, was driving on I-10 in Arizona. Suddenly I felt nausea in my stomach and began to get very confused in what was happing. I felt as I was going into a deep sleep fighting to try to stay awake.  I pulled off to the side of the road...somehow I managed to stop the truck. I parked on the side of the road.  I was still fighting to stay awake, felt like I was passing-out.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    3 March 1990

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Stroke   Don't know what you want to call it, I was not seen untill after the incidentI thought for sure I was leaving this world. But as I got closer to the end of the tunnel I heard a voice telling me that "No, it’s not your time yet...  you have more to accomplish with your family."

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was in the tunnel I was fully alert. Everything was very clear and very detailed, all colors were bright and clear, every line in the tunnel was clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   lost 30-45 minutes that were unaccounted for.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Voices as stated above

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     as I stated above

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     heard voices as stated above

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   bright colors and bright light at the end of the tunnel

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Don't recall, except I was very impressed overjoyed of the wonderful tunnel. I believe at first I was afraid of what I had entered, but as I traveled it began to look wonderful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Family members needed guidence.  The problems with family members became real.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I heard the voice say that it was not time for me to go yet.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Moderate   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I look at life totally differently.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   So much happened in that time and it is hard to recall the event as it happened.  I recall things out of order and can still picture most of what had happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Not sure, but I know when something is wrong with any of my kids.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst was staggering around after the experience and the beginning before I passed out or entered the tunnel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife, she believed me, she is very religious and understood everything I had told her

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was something that I never dreamed of experiencing, but it happened.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_nde.html