{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harold_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Harold N NDE 5107","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harold N NDE 5107  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harold N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2650 Harold N NDE 5107  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was aware that I had flat lined - yet again! It was just another in a long series of cardiac flat lines after a septal ablation. But this one was different! Instead of 'waking up' a night later, like all of the others, I suddenly became aware that I was flying like superman. It was sudden, like I was an orange pip squeezed out from between someone's fingers.

It was sunny and warm and the warm breeze in my face felt wonderful. I looked around. What the heck was happening? I saw I was 'flying' over a bay, which was a deep blue and had lovely sandy beaches. Just out from the bay was what appeared to be a volcanic tropical island. The sun was high in the sky. Sitting at anchor in the bay was an unusual large sailing ship with one huge sail but with multiple decks - at least three. There were tiny people crowding the uppermost deck of the sailing ship and beckoning to me. They were laughing, gesturing, waving, and calling on me to join them. I felt so good and was flying straight to the ship. Then just as I was getting close it all faded and I was back in my bed with medical staff around me and my wife grasping my hand in a crushing grip.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  Post Septal ablation for HOCM  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt conscious and alert during the entire experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt conscious and alert during the entire experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Sorry too hard to describe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Was able to see incredible detail at a distance.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't remember anything about hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Human like figures. I did not get close enough to them to interact directly but was heading towards them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was light and warmth all around me but no specific point of light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was sunny and warm and the warm breeze in my face felt wonderful. I looked around)What the hell was haooening?) and saw I was "flying" over a bay which was a deep blue and had lovely sandy beaches. Just out from the bay was what appeared to be a volcanic tropical island. The sun was high in the sky. Sitting at anchor in the bay was an unusual large sailing ship with one huge sail but with multiple decks - at least 3. There were tiny people crowding the uppermost deck of the sailing ship and beckoning to me. The were laughting and gesturing and waving and calling on me to join them. I felt so good and was flying straight to the ship.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation and a feeling of 'rightness'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Agnostic tending towards a ''Pagan'' perspective of the Earth as a living being.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Have become more involved in my ancestral spirituality as this seems to fit my experience.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Pagan/Heathen

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Have become more involved in my ancestral spirituality as this seems to fit my experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Set me to connecting with my ancestral spirituality.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Can never describe the 'feelings'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        A sense of a potential meeting of ancestors.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several hours.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Had done a little reading but not much specific other than people seeing 'the Light' plus a tunnel, none of which was my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I found it difficult to rationalize.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I avoid talking about it and discussing it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_n_nde.html