{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harold_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Harold E NDE 968","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harold E NDE 968  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harold E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						446  Harold E NDE  968  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Hi,


I am a musician, guitar player. My experience was as follows:


The 21 of June is the music festival in France, one of the nicest moments when one is a musician. We had played with the group at a wedding, some kilometers from Paris, and around 3:00 o’clock in the morning, we had to all get back home.


After having found a place for all in the cars, I found myself in the front of my friend guitarist P. We were with six persons in the car. P. the guitarist was the driver; I was a passenger in front with my girlfriend between my legs because there were no other places to go back to Paris at that moment.


In the back of my car were three of my friends that also were musicians. We had played and had a good time. We drove on a small country road where there were trees on both sides, and then I fell asleep.


I woke up by a strange sound not frightening but just strange, a muffled sound. At that moment, I understood that I was inside a car that had stopped and was on fire. Police explained later that we had been hit from behind by another car that drove at one hundred and eighty kilometers an hour.  But at that moment, I knew nothing about this. The sound of the fire woke me and I understood that I was trapped in a car that was on fire. There was no other noise in the car except the noise of the flames I saw nobody except my girlfriend who was unconscious. As she was on my lap, she had probably sheltered me from the impact, though I had several broken ribs and a big black eye.


When I came to myself I extinguished her hair that was burning, then in despair I tried to break my side window, but without success. The window was half-open and I slid both hands through the opening to try to open it, but to no avail. At that precise moment in all the confusion I heard my own voice coming from inside that told me:


'Ivan you are going to die being burned alive in a road accident.' This voice was so clear and precise and so lucid that I knew that this was the end of the road for me. This voice was so calm and clear, all the opposite of the state that I was in, a state of panic and total incomprehension. This voice made me understand that it was the end and I couldn’t but listen to it at such a moment. From that moment on the struggle was useless, no need to break windows or doors to try to escape from this inferno; I had given up, accepted to go and die.


At that moment when I turned slowly to the left that I saw the same vision of the road that I had seen when I fell asleep, before the accident. Only that on the road I now saw five tubes or lines placed like five points on a dice of a light.  They were so white and so shining, but didn’t hurt the eyes.  The tubes were so sweet and warm coming towards me so that when I could almost touch these luminous spots I turned toward them without any hesitation, like an emergency exit there close to my hands, and suddenly I found myself several meters from this car in flames that took away my friends. I found I had escaped from this inferno physically. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    06/21/1991

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Very serious road accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My consciousness was hyper-active, I don’t know about my lucidity.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_e_nde.html