{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1harold_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Harold D Probable NDE 22840","mylang":"de"}
          	        Harold D Probable NDE 22840  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Harold D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3330 Harold D Probable NDE 22840  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was really badly sick with the flu and I laid down on the couch , and I remember thinking I never felt this bad , so I laid there a few minutes with my eyes closed because I felt so bad. Then suddenly I thought I feel pretty good and when I opened my eyes I was hovering above my body but I wasn't scared.  The next thing I know I'm floating in a big tunnel. If I had to guess, maybe 25-30 ft. in diameter the walls were black and there were shiny black rocks of different sizes. I floated for a few seconds and I could see a light at the far end.  The tunnel was cone-shaped. Then all of a sudden, I was sucked to the light and I came out on the other side.  I saw it was a clear sky with a few little clouds and there was rolling hills really beautiful and the grass was a little below my knee, maybe 7 or 8 inches high. There was also a small creek winding down from the hills.  Then I noticed a group of people across the creek.  They were older people, all dressed in white. I didn't know any of them. Now here's the kicker. My wife had died 2 yrs. earlier and she came from around the back of them.  She came to me. I was standing at the edge of the creek.  She walks to the other side of the creek up to the edge and then tells me, ‘It's not my time. You have to go back.’ I told her I want to stay with her.  Then she says, ‘Harold you have to go back, it's not your time.’ She told me we would be together again. Then it felt like I was being sucked back, like I was dropped into my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Bad Flu  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was aware and very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No idea how long it lasted.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Popping noises and that a fast, sucking sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met my wife. We talked.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright light at the end of a tunnel.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It's hard to explain.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt great and happy.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I believe the creek was the boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I had to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best was being at peace and seeing my wife.  The worst was going back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told several close friends.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, not that I can think of at the moment.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_d_probable_nde.html