{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hanz_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Hanz J NDE 2646","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hanz J NDE 2646  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hanz J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						867  Hanz J NDE  2646  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  There was about twenty-five minutes from when I slid off a bed to waking up in an ambulance. The person I was with punched me in the chest and I breathed in deep and laid on my side. Ambulance and fire came. They rolled me on my back - heart stopped for two minutes and they brought me back - picked me up to put me on stretcher and died again for two minutes. Switched paramedic. Firefighter broke ribs. Brought me back. They didn't move me for fifteen minutes. (All according to a girl that saved me, and a neighbor, and paramedics) Then off to hospital. I regained consciousness in ambulance.

While out...

Very short time. Silhouette of women in black. Remember black patent leather shoes and either holding black lace or black lace around her waist. Couldn't see her but knew it was my grandmother that had died before I was born. There was a faint light behind her. No tunnel. I can see how people mistake a tunnel. It's more that there is just darkness everywhere else and just a light. No tunnel.

That's it and I woke up. Though I am very different today. The same but different.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	March 27, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Flat lined twice for two minutes. Brought back by paramedics.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was not the same. Though I don't recall being super aware or far away. It just was. I don't know how to explain. There were no regular body feelings. I just was there.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While seeing light and grandmother.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Saw grandmother. No talking. There was a 'Knowing'. She sent me back or stepped in between.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the place where i saw my grandmother. though dark and not visually beautiful had a peace to it  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. No feeling. Safe. It's hard to have feelings without a body I guess.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I am having an awful a lot of coincidences.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a peaceful feeling inside me that has not wavered.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a peaceful feeling inside me that has not wavered.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that she intervened and that I had a purpose and to not turn my back again. I don't know the purpose just that I'm not done here.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't judge people.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To express that there was a feeling that has no words. It just was.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told siblings. I don't want to tell anyone else because I can't put into words what happened.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hanz_j_nde.html