{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hans_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Hans V NDE 894","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hans V NDE 894  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hans V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						365  Hans V NDE  894  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It all begun by driving up Mount Charleston one day with school friends! We decided to pick up two girls from another school nearby ours and play hooky! We left to drive home again at about 3:00 pm in the afternoon from the top of Mount Charleston to Vegas - we realized that we did not have enough petrol in the tank to make it all the way home to Las Vegas. So we decided to coast down this enormous hilly highway leading up to this mountain. The car we drove was a 1962 Chevrolet Corvair Monza. It belonged to the fellow who was my very best friend. He was driving the vehicle!! As we got further down the hilly road - we collected a very fast pace of speed and the driver did not realize that the brakes did not work on the car with the engine shut off!! He lost control of the vehicle and we tumbled down the side of the mountain in the car with the car! (One girl was killed, another received slight injuries, and the fellow had hardly any injuries on him as he was thrown out of the car, incredible as it was a convertible!!)


I went for the entire ride till the car finally stopped!! I floated above the vehicle. I noticed a crew from a helicopter carrying a gurney on which they loaded my body!! I saw me - bloody - beaten. - They had me as dead. They mentioned it. I heard it said, but I felt wonderful where I was. I floated very, very peacefully through the air as I watched happily, as I was being removed. It was me that they removed!!!! I saw the helicopter with me in the gurney by the side of the cabin take off into the direction of Vegas and I lost consciousness immediately afterwards.


During this time, I felt me riding as a little boy on a beautiful merry-go-round, lovely organ music, beautiful white clothes. I was happy, smiling and laughing with all the other kids. We experienced total bliss. My other little friends were also decked out in white clothing - going around and around. A man got up, walked across to the handles of the machine which powered the merry-go-round and stopped it. He called out my name and asked me to get off the merry-go-round. I was so very sad. I cried, but I got off. He told me it was time to leave this.


I woke up. I looked up and saw my face in the mirror on my hospital bed. My face was a mess. I couldn't move. I shouted obscenities. I wanted to die for taking me back to this shitty life and so I started what I called my new horrible life. I was angry because they ordered me back to this.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1963

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I obviously was out when the vehicle rolled, and when I came out and saw me from above, I felt nothing in me, around me, as if I was made from air, as if someone made me new.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Oh my God, I was so carefree, so without pain and sorrow, no tears, happy, so free, I saw all.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not looking at me during my recovery by the helicopter staff, but during the merry-go-round there was the lovely music which said all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     From a darkness into a greyness, into an area in which only I was in.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Other kids with me on the merry-go-round, this man who told me to get off, and somehow something or someone who told me that I must go back.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was this light that surrounded me when I was trying to see me; at the very first it was difficult to focus on me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The very lovely hilly countryside where this merry-go-round was situated on.  Blue skies, warm, breathable air.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I felt a surrounding which felt like something different than the earth which I felt I was not on.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     After this event I lost all memory to me as a kid up to the age of six or seven years old, as if I never ever was!

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Very much, my own life changed after this, my awareness of things took on the meaning of *I know this earth - it is not the place where I will remain after my death*, *I will return to this place I loved when I will actually die on this earth*, *they did not let me stay because simply it was not my full turn yet*, this feeling is still within me now.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   In my case I was told that I will have to return, I had no choice I was told.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I viewed things differently from that day on.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Yes!! And it's not funny whenever I say this.  I started to experience seeing the number 11 11 in different places and times of the day for a long, long time, still now, this got worse in the last five years, there is more but I feel silly.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best, when I was away from this earth, the worst, when I was forced to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some felt I was an ass, some agreed with their own experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Oh have I ever!! This has changed my life totally!!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Maybe someday in a chat, now it would feel silly.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, you are doing well.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hans_v_nde.html