{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hanriette_nde.html","mytitle":"Hanriette NDE 6033","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hanriette NDE 6033  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hanriette NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2956 Hanriette NDE 6033  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was admitted to the hospital to give birth to my first child. The labor was a difficult one for me as I suffered a uterine rupture and several small spills in my eyes and face. I lost a large amount of blood and after I finished giving birth, I was taken to a bed at the maternity ward. 

The next day, when I was showering, I fell on the bathroom floor.  At that moment, I saw, like in an old movie going backwards, clear images of my life from being an adult to my childhood. I found myself in the middle of a grayish white mist and I noticed three beings dressed in white like angels, a woman to my left, a man in front of me and another man to my right. All of them had very dark hair.  The woman had long hair to her shoulders and the men's hair was cut at the height of their ears. I couldn't see their faces because they were made of a very bright white light. They were communicating with me not through their mouths but by means of some kind of telepathy.

When I woke up from my fall, a nurse was patting my face and trying to get me out of the bathroom. That was when I fell over again and I ended up at the same place surrounded by those three beings as before. I felt that we had talked for many hours although the perception of time is not the same as we perceive down here. I can't remember what we chatted about. All I remember was that I didn't want to come back and I begged not to be sent back. The being in front of me was telling me that I couldn't stay and had to go back. When I regained consciousness, the nurse was laying me down in my bed and I felt like being at home.

Today I think that because I didn't want to come back, in spite of having a newborn baby daughter to take care of, that means for sure that we have a mission to accomplish here and then we'll be allowed to go back to God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/05/1993
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the images of my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I talked with those beings for hours but when I came back only a few minutes had taken place.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No difference.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I hadn't been through a tunnel; I just found myself in the middle of the mist but didn't know how I got there.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the faces of those beings. It was very bright but it didn't hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     During my experience I was like in an earthly place but full of mist.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a profound feeling of peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   não tinha religião na época.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before I didn't believe in anything and today I believe in Jesus, in God and I'm an Evangelic.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Eu não acreditava eu vida após a morte, anjos ou coisas parecidas, hoje sei que minha casa não é aqui, pois eu ví os seres(anjos)e hoje eu sei que eles existem.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Today I don't care about material things as people are more important to me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw three beings that look like angels.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel that after that experience something has changed within me. I feel that I am aware of a different knowledge but don't know how to explain it. I also feel that I must help other people.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love the whole world but I know there's a bigger love waiting for us.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   me lembro com mas clareza da experiencia vivida, do que fatos que ocorreram na época, eu lembro detalhes da experiencia e não lembro de detalhes da minha filha crescendo.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm filled with love for all people and a will to help them. I can feel what they are feeling and many times, I feel their suffering even without realizing as they grieve. I feel the presence of beings around me constantly.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Those three beings left a big mark on me, I just can't forget them.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Initially only with relatives but I don't know if they believed me. Today I only talk about this with my daughter because I feel she believes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am absolutely sure that I was in that mist with those three beings but I don't know how to explain better.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember the event as clearly as I remember my wedding day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm pretty sure it did happen as I left the Earth and went in the direction of our true home. It was the most beautiful thing I ever experienced.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No other questions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hanriette_nde.html