{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hanne_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Hanne B NDE 3426","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hanne B NDE 3426  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hanne B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1413 Hanne B NDE 3426  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was three years old I fell out of an open window from the fourth floor.

I remember the fall; remember lying on my back on the concrete tiles, looking up at the open window above and then my mother and aunt rushing towards me screaming loudly with their outstretched arms. Then a 'gap'. Next I found 'myself zooming out', seeing the backs of my mother, aunt and many people I did not know leaning over a little 'empty shell'. There was a square white 'box' with two lamps shining on this (must have been an ambulance, but I had never seen one). The 'scene' disappeared as I was zooming out and up, the rooftops and chimneys went out of sight, and the next 'thing' I remember (vividly!) is that I was between thousands of stars and spiraling galaxies they were All Around 'me' and I was part of the Whole. (I did not know back then, what a galaxy was, let alone a spiraling one.) I felt One and All Consciousness and extremely happy. The night sky around me was the most beautiful Royal Blue and I was 'clad' in a 'floating garment' with a long, pointed hat on my 'head', which was pure light. When I moved my 'hands', stars would spring from them and join the rest on the firmament.

As I was too young to know what a 'magician' would look like I had no idea - but how I loved it all! When I grew older, I could read about 'magicians' and wondered. The 'Hubble Telescope' and many other sources filled me in on the spiraling galaxies later on in life: Home Again. Have to add that when I found myself strapped tightly into a narrow little bed in hospital and the nurses/doctors treated me as a little kid (they can be forgiven :-) ) that I thought: If you just knew how old I really am. And 'waking up' was much less thrilling than my NDE experience, trust that. For some reason I felt that I should not tell anyone about my 'extraterrestrial experience', this including my beloved mother, because she might be worried. I told her many years later when I was a teenager, this when she told me that I had been declared stone dead by the doctors - and that when I came to, they had told her that I would be brainless. Well, it was not so, and she blamed them for having been so cruel.

That is when I found it fair to tell her of my beautiful experience. Fair on her - and fair on the doctors. She was utmost surprised; this is put mildly, and kept asking me for more. How she deserved it, poor mum. But time had to be ripe, for both of us, and we decided to keep it between us. As the decennia went by, many more people turned out to have had amazing experiences when 'dead', and I think it is of utmost importance for so many people being so scared of death to know, that 'this dimension' is NOT 'all there is'.

That we are multi-dimensional beings. If that was not so - 'who' was the 'being' flying between the galaxies and 'who' was the three year old who 'woke up'?

If anything, I 'woke down'.  :-)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1943

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury  Fractured Skull by fall from fourth floor  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       ALL the time - I have never after reached THAT High level of Consciousness. Pure Consciousness is PURE Consciousness after all.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     'Time' did NOT exist in that realm.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Absolutely - I could see All around me. 360 degrees in all directions. One and All Bright EYE/Light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Slight humming sound - if any.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I do not remember a tunnel but vividly remember the 'zooming out', leaving the people, roofs, town and the surface of earth. A bit like 'Google Earth' these days.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     As ALL was ONE there was no 'otherness', only ONE Beingness.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a sort of 'central light source' - but it was not apart from anything or me - All was One. Including 'me' - 'being a light myself'.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     What I would describe as Heaven,Celestial - COSMIC  .

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderful - Sheer BLISS.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was born with a deep Love for All in my heart - I do not know if my experience changed anything specific as such, I still feel that, frankly.  I do not agree with All people 'do', not at all. But I believe that by keeping my own vibes up I can 'help' others raise theirs as well. And it works more often than not. Wonderful.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was born with a deep Love for All in my heart - I do not know if my experience changed anything specific as such, I still feel that, frankly.  I do not agree with All people 'do', not at all. But I believe that by keeping my own vibes up I can 'help' others raise theirs as well. And it works more often than not. Wonderful.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When I 'came back/woke up' in hospital I Surely Knew that there was Much More 'to it' than what people around me seemed to know. I certainly Knew that I was OLD -older than Anyone I could think of or knew. I had many 'reasons' to not even Try to explain to Anybody, ooops... I was 'only' three years after all - for them to see, anyway.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I do not know What and Who my relationships the rest of my life would have been Without my experience? - I was so young after all.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Too beautiful or words - literally Heavenly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     People tell me that they feel 'healed' by my presence, my hands/body sort of stream out healing energies that have healed myself and others many times.  FYI: I do Not call myself a healer - it just 'happens' naturally.  And people tell me spontaneously that they feel good - I don't ask.  Do not want to infringe on others, do not consider that 'my right'.  I also have an unusually strong 'gut-feeling'.  It 'tells me' precisely what is up and what I should do. Always.  I did Not always Listen to it when I was younger - I do Now.  Because Experience taught me that 'gut' was Right.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything was of Great significance, absolutely. The older I get the more I Know that.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took many years before I mentioned it to my mother, and I only bring it up if somebody is stricken with grief after one of their loved ones has 'died'. And IF! I 'feel' that they can handle it - that death does Not exist, that it is crossing dimensions - From caterpillar to Butterfly!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     All I can answer is that it is the Most REAL experience I have Ever had. A Clarity and Consciousness that cannot be described in words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I would not have missed it for a zillion! I had a 'glimpse behind the curtain' that changed my life. As young as I was I Knew that there was More, Much More to 'life'. Thus, I did not buy into the 'death scare' that obviously haunts so many people. It also left me with a Deep Compassion for humanity - if 'they' but Knew that All is ONE.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have meditated quite often and felt quite a Lot of the Bliss of my experience, luckily. The meditation experiences did not reproduce That specific NDE experience though, but there certainly were some Beautiful Peaks.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, I wish that Everybody Knew that there is a Wonderful Source of GOOD, call it God or whatever/whoever - I have no name, but I Know that 'IT' IS. It is Good and it is Strong. All is Well. This 'realm' is an ' illusion' - a learning process. Not always easy, but we learn a lot that we can only learn here. Otherwise I would not have 'come back'- would have been waste of 'Spirit-time'.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think that you have asked all I can answer for now. If there is more you think that I could add, please let me know.  Thanks!!!  Bless and Peace,  Hanne.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hanne_b_nde.html