{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hannah_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Hannah J NDE 1006","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hannah J NDE 1006  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hannah J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						436  Hannah J NDE  1006  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I saw a field of flowers which were unlike anything I had ever seen before. There were mountains in the background. It was an untouched, unspoiled landscape. The field seemed endless. I was floating above it. I felt I was to progress to the end of the field, I didn't look behind me. I didn't look far ahead either. It suddenly hit me what was happening and I refused to be there. If I want one thing in life, it is to raise my children to adulthood and I had yet to do that. This realization hit like a ton of bricks and I jolted back into consciousness. I never lost consciousness again after that and was a lot more alert even though my physical situation was no better and deteriorating. Determination I guess... The picture I have in my head of the whole experience is like a snapshot in my head. I wasn't there long and at that point no one around me realized what I'd experienced.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2/2/04

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  It felt that way but I didn't see myself lying there or watch myself from above during the experience. While I felt I was floating above the flowers I wasn't aware of any form or body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Passing in and out of consciousness. I was told I was in an incredibly good state for the amount of blood I'd lost.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I had no sense of time at all (even when conscious).

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The field and mountains as described above.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was as if I suddenly placed what was happening and decided there was no way I was going there. I wanted to go back for my family and children.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Has reinforced to me what is most precious in life. Although I already had this value, it has just strengthened it. I also feel very strongly that most people in the world have life totally out of perspective and wish others could see how unimportant the things that lead to all the politics and battles in the world are.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Actually, come to think of it, for a time afterwards (four weeks or so) I did tend to see auras around things and white forms fleeting past me. The auras were only white or glowing yellowish.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - the sense of peace and perspective it has given me. I don't fear death at all in terms of the physical experience. Worst - other people's reactions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I think my husband (who I took some weeks to talk to about it) was a bit envious. He wanted to know if it had made me more religious (it hasn't). I told my father when he asked as a joke and he made a joke about it (which I didn't think was funny). I told a very religious friend who told me that even if the place seemed peaceful I didn't know if it meant I'd go to heaven or hell because I wasn't there long enough. I guess I should have known better than to tell her. She gets the prize for the stupidest most insensitive comment. Haven't told anyone else yet though might mention it if it came up.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Never had anything like this before either before or after.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I am not sure if this experience was real or all in my head. However it did definitely happen and I was fully 'there' if that makes any sense.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hannah_j_nde.html