{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hannah_nde.html","mytitle":"Hannah NDE 1027","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hannah NDE 1027  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hannah NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						472  Hannah NDE  1027  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 1027:  					</p>  					

I was 25, extremely pregnant, and a ceasarean for my second child was planned. I went in for surgery, my first child had been born through a ceasarean, so I knew what to expect. I had no fear, was not nervous. After the epidural, everything would be over quick. So it went, I got an epidural, and surgery started shortly afterwards.


Unexpectedly, my situation worsened very fast. My blood pressure fell enormously. Suddenly, I felt very calm, an almost perfect peace. But I had not seen my child yet. The doctors pulled me through, up to two times. But I knew that I was going to die. Don’t ask how, I just had this certainty. Finally my daughter was born. They brought her to me.  A beautiful baby, a wonderful daughter that I had put into the world. And that’s what I thought, It was the only thing that counted, I had seen my daughter and it was ok. Now I could go.


Even today, I still feel guilty about that thought. How could I let her down to fend for herself? But nothing stopped me. Then, for the third time I felt myself dying, and this time I did not fight. I heard the doctors yelling, they had discovered a tumor on my stomach and liver. It didn’t interest me anymore: ‘I had seen my daughter and it was ok’. Then I felt a peace as I had never felt before. Perfect pure delightful serenity. Peace. Happiness.


Words cannot describe that feeling. I am convinced that nobody during his earthly life can be so peaceful and happy as I felt then. Not even on the most wonderful day of a lifetime. This quietude and bliss are incomparable.


I saw no tunnel, no light at the end of the tunnel. I saw an all-encompassing golden glow. For a moment, not long. Then I entered the most beautiful landscape that I could imagine. A bright green pasture, full with red glowing tulips. I was very aware that I was dead. This was not a dream and I knew that. I looked next to me and I saw a blond and beautiful woman in a blue dress.


Twelve years before I had seen her also, she walked one night right over me and my ex-husband. He was mad with fear, I was very calm. We both woke up and saw this ‘spirit’ or ‘guide’ walk over us.  Until that day of the birth of my daughter I have never seen her again.


After what seemed hours to me I ‘woke up’ back in my body. Like that, suddenly. I had not seen myself lying there. Doctors rushed in, I was very angry. Mad at them, that they had brought me back, I didn't want to come back. I wanted to be there, with peace and happiness. Not here, on earth. I shouted, yelled, cried …Later they told me that was a normal reaction from somebody that had been ‘dead’.


They had told my ex-husband that I had died. I think therefore that I have been brought back by something else, not by the doctors. They had already given up on me. About ten minutes after they had declared me dead I was back.


I couldn't handle it. Was very happy with my daughter, but had such a desire to go back to the green field. Days, weeks, months I felt I missed something. I wanted to go back. The worst is, which often gives me a feeling of guilt: till today I think how beautiful it was. A lot has happened in those eight years, bad and also good things. I want to go back, but know that the people I would leave behind would have too much sorrow. The yearning has lessened, but I still think about it. Often. I walked there like here in the earthly life. I saw my hands and feet, but not myself as if I was walking. The strange thing was that every movement of my arms left a kind of ‘after-image’. A slow motion that was not a slow motion. Very strange. At that time even funny and very interesting. Everything I saw was very beautiful, even the after-images of my hands. Quite strange.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1996

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-related. Childbirth    Clinical death

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was conscious of what was happening. Clearly aware that I was dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Yes a woman, we didn’t talk, not with words at least. But she stayed with me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A second of an all-encompassing golden glow.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A beautiful green field with warm red tulips.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Anger and sorrow that I was back.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Moderate

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Disbelief, and also mixed feelings of what was happening to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Things that I know about people without talking to them, these hunches about what is going to happen in the near future, the deep knowledge about humans that I always experience are too frequent to be coincidental.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Everything was beautiful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only with a few people. One of them also had experienced this during surgery and also longed for this peace and calm, which is so in describable beautiful. For the rest, rather skeptical reactions. That’s why I kept it to myself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I try to leave my body, and on rare occasions I succeed. There I can re-experience part of this calm.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>                    Experience Description 20200:  					  					

I was in labor of my youngest daughter. I was partially anesthetized for I had an operation instead of a normal delivery. They anesthetized me more than necessary because the anesthesia did not work immediately. My blood pressure dropped and I started to feel very sick. After half an hour, my daughter was born. Then they continued. I did need a sterilization, because I could not have a third child. It was already my second child with an operation; doctors did not want to take the risk of a third. I was still conscious. While performing the sterilization, they discovered I had cancer and they had to cut it out. Anesthesia did not work like it was meant to, and my body protested from pain. My heart stopped two times. They recovered me by putting adrenaline straight into my heart. I was back, and did not feel anything strange at the time. After another two hours (they had many problems with the cancer), I felt dizzy. My heart stopped for the third time. I started to feel little 'shakes' inside of me and before I knew, I saw myself lying on the operation table. After a few seconds, I saw the doctors panic. One of them shouted that I lost too much blood.


Suddenly, all I saw was light. Not bright light, but soft, comforting light. I don't know how to explain it, like I said, it is too big for words; there was a peace coming over me. Rest, peace in its greatest form. No worries, no problems, no bad feelings, no black thoughts. Only peace. Bigger than when you're in love, greater than when you hold your child for the first time, more beautiful than anyone can imagine. Only peace, rest, and happiness. Nothing else. I saw a woman. Beautiful, with a light blue long dress. Charming. At that time, I realized I was dead, or out of my body anyway. All I could think was, 'Okay, I saw my daughter. She is great; she's beautiful. She is healthy. I am gone now. She will be alright.' It sounds egocentric, but I did not feel bad about this at the time. Strange. I was happy I have seen her that was all that mattered at the time.


I kept looking at the light, at the woman. I was extremely happy. There was not a real face. She was blond, with a blue dress. She smiled. The white soft light changed into a landscape. Grass of the greenest green, with red roses, as for as the eye can reach. I knew the woman was beside me. I did not really see her, but I knew she was there. It was so beautiful. I cried from happiness.


From one moment to the other, I felt like someone or something was pulling me away. The landscape faded and I was back on the operation table. It sounds strange, but I felt like being born. Air came into my longs, with a lot of pain, and I shouted like hell. After a few seconds, I realized I was back and all I did was begging to let me go. Go back where I came from. I cursed, shouted at the doctors, I was extremely mad. (Believe me; normally I am a very calm person.) I hit them, shouted at them, nothing mattered. I wanted to go back. Of course, this did not help. Afterwards, I heard they declared me dead a few minutes before.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1996

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedChildbirth    Clinical death Child birth and surgery complications.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt shaking, like I had two bodies instead of one.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very conscious. I realized I was gone.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt like it took hours I was there, but they told me I was only gone like seven or eight minutes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard 'clicking'. Like tiny little bells. Afterwards, I heard the noise of soft wind.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     No religious environment. Only a landscape. Grass, very green, with red roses, and the woman I described above.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A tall blond woman, dressed in a blue long dress. She did not really have a face, but I knew she was smiling. We did not talk, but she was peace herself.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   When I went out of my body, the room changed into a soft white light. Not bright as I hear a lot from other people.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw better, heard better.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Only happiness, peace and rest.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew there was something wrong with my husband. A very bad feeling, the moment I saw him with my newborn daughter in his arm. I do not know how or what, but I knew I had to be careful.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     After this experience, I tried OBE. I tried to visit a few friends of mine. I mostly fall asleep while trying, but every time I try, people tell me they dreamed about me. A good friend of mine called me once and said, 'Damned Annick, stop visiting me in my dreams.' Sometimes I remember, sometimes I don't.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I only knew I was back the moment I opened my eyes at the operation table.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     First of all, I am not afraid to die anymore. I always was. But if this is dying, fear is over.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It is hard to explain to other people how beautiful it was. I did not know what 'peace' and 'rest' and 'luck' was until the event. It was, and still is too beautiful for words. Besides that, a lot of people think you are crazy if you tell them a story like that.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My knowledge of people grew. I feel auras, sometimes see them. I lay eyes on somebody and know what she/he is like, if he is sick. More and more, I even know what will happen in the near future. Simple things; answers I know in advance, just little things that happen.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part, the moment I saw this field with the roses. It is so simple, but so great. The worst of course is the moment I came back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I talked with somebody who has had OBEs since he was little. He also tried to kill himself because he claims you can do evil stuff during these events. Anyway, he believed me. Said I had to be careful with OBEs, always think about good things and so on.  Other people looked at me like I was crazy. So after talking to two or three more people, I did not talk anymore. I tried some chat sites, but there are many fakes. I don't like playing games about these experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I tried OBE for a long time, read about it, and learned about it. The last months, I started to succeed. Have my own world out there. (Or is it not only mine?). The same landscape, with unicorns and mermaids, planets and stars. And they are no real dreams. I leave my body.

</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hannah_nde.html