{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1halina_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Halina J NDE 1002","mylang":"de"}
          	        Halina J NDE 1002  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Halina J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						456  Halina J NDE  1002  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was lying on an operation table and I can remember the doctor applying ether. After a few seconds, I saw my body floating in the air and moving to the right side of the room. I was amazed at what I saw. (I could remember every detail of the operation and I told the doctors about it when I was being moved to my room after the operation.) I went further to the right and I suddenly found myself in a grey desert and heard a voice coming from underground saying, 'There is GOD, There is GOD, There is GOD.' (I still can't remember if the voice spoke Polish or English). The word ‘ecstasy' describes the feeling best. Apart from ecstasy, I also felt great awe for God. I went further until I reached a tunnel and rays of sunlight. I knelt down and I felt God. I must say that as a five year old, I was fascinated by the Sun and I tried hard to reach for it and touch it. I don't know if this fact means anything but I know that I've changed a lot since this experience. I'm not the person I used to be. I like people the way they are. In silence, I like talking to my God. I'm still thinking about what happened in 1978. I told about this experience to the doctors who operated on me, to the nurses as well as other patients. It's worth mentioning that after the resection of my stomach that I underwent I was back to normal and could walk after two hours as if nothing happened.
  				  
Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1978 rok

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-related     W trakcie operacji</br>

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My consciousness was connected to a translucent body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was under a general anesthetic but it felt like real life.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt I was home and I didn't want to come back. I repeated this to the doctors: 'I want to go back there. I wanna go back home!' when I was being taken to my room.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    From underground. 'There is God' - three times and then when I was near the Sun I thought 'This is what God looks like.'

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A huge Sun in the color of orange, gold and red.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      One hundred percent satisfaction and a feeling of great love.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     This is a world of God and his laws. I had to believe it and interpret these laws.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I got the answer that God exists the same year I doubted His existence.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     West Phoenix, Arizona, I was driving to work. I usually leave the crossroads when the lights are at green but this time I went through a red light and had an accident. My mum and dad came to me in my dream three days before the operation (which was on August 21, 2003). I phoned my friend to tell her my parents came to take me. I gave this all a lot of thought and after the operation; I told doctors something was wrong. My intestines were twisted and I had to undergo another operation in Seattle, Washington.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Kwestionowalam istnienie

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Wierze ze Istnieje-nie Kwestionuje-i nikogo nie przekonjue.  Osobiescie rozmawiam z Nim - i mam spokoj wewnetrzny

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I don't like to be in the center of bustle and I don't like being surrounded by noisy people. I try to spend a lot of time with nature.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I know what people are thinking very often.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part: knowing there is God. Worst part: returning to earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my mother. Her reply: 'Darling, don't tell anyone about it. People will think you're crazy.' Others were interested.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish everyone could experience what I experienced. I cannot argue God does not exist. I know he does exist. Above, on and under the ground.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I must admit you deal with these experiences in a professional way. They are not alien to many people. I wish you good luck in your further work and I leave you with the spirit I feel inside.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1halina_j_nde.html