{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1halil_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Halil T NDE 8284","mylang":"de"}
          	        Halil T NDE 8284  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Halil T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4337 Halil T NDE 8284  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was picking up my daughter from school. While I was walking there, I dropped to the floor. I was having a heart attack! I was walking in a pretty populous area, so there were many people around. However, no one seemed to do anything. A few younger boys walked by, and just watched as I was lying on the ground. A young girl, who was  maybe five years old, noticed me since I had collapsed right outside of her apartment complex. She asked me if I was alright, but I couldn't say anything anymore. She went back inside.  

Everything went black. I will never be able to remember how long it was that I could not see anything, but all of a sudden, I realized my eyes were open. There was one thing that didn't make sense; why was I floating? I was in the same spot that I had collapsed, but I was slightly higher up. Suddenly, I heard sirens and looked down. I could see an ambulance with people coming out.  They were putting me on a stretcher. I heard one man say, 'This man has no chance of survival.  He has been here without any help for nearly an hour!' The other man said, 'I'm sure he is already dead. I didn't realize it was this bad.' I could see everything so clearly. 

I wasn't feeling any pain and actually felt very comfortable.  However, I was a bit stressed at the thought of my daughter and my wife, who would be stressed to find out that I had died. I didn't know where my daughter was, but I knew that my wife's work was not too far, so I went to her workplace. I went to her office, but she wasn't there. I saw that her computer screen was on, and that she had been looking at an Istanbul real estate page with apartments and houses for sale. I didn't think much of it at the time, but this did have significance later on in my story. 

I became curious. What would happen if I continued to float up? I began to go up, up, and up. Finally, I could see the entire city of Samsun. As I started to rise, I could see the Black Sea and the Southern tip of Ukraine, which is geographically close to Samsun. Eventually, I could see all of Turkey and Ukraine.  Then all of Eurasia. I kept going up so high that I was eventually able to view the whole earth from outer space. 

Suddenly, I saw total black. I couldn't see anything. I started to panic, and yelled, "Hello!" I didn't get a response. Then, I called out to a higher power, and suddenly, I saw immense light. I was able to float towards that light.  As I entered, I realized that I was getting sucked into some vortex. Then, I was in a cave or a tunnel. I could see the same light, but it was at the end of this tunnel. I started to float towards that light, and I came closer, and closer. As I got to the end, with a door. This door had typical Islamic ornamentation on it. The door opened, and it looked absolutely dark.  However, this was only for a few seconds. 

Afterwards, I had an entire life review; from when I was in my mother's womb to the present day. I was shown many life events that I had forgotten about. Some of them made me feel happy, while others filled me with guilt, sadness, sorrow, and so on. 

Next, I saw a nice meadow with green grass that was greener than I could have ever imagined or seen.  It had flowers that had a color that I cannot describe. I went inside a house and saw a young man who was was sitting.  As soon as he saw me, he stood up and ran to me. He looked similar to my father, but I could tell it was not him as I had seen photos of him when he was in his early twenties. This man was visually younger than I was. I asked him who he was.  He told me that he was my grandfather. Ever since I had known him, he was in a wheelchair. I was very surprised. He asked me to say hi to my grandmother, his wife. Then he asked me if I wanted to meet my deceased father. We walked for about 5 minutes.  In the distance, I saw my father. When we got closer, he welcomed me with open arms.  He told me that I had been a good person, but that I needed to make sure my daughter would never lose her religion. My grandfather, father, and myself were walking along a field, and we saw a beautiful Mosque in the distance. As we got closer, I could feel my walking became more and more difficult. It felt as though I gained all this extra weight. They entered, but I could not. 

I could feel myself being pulled back. I heard an authoritative voice say, 'You shall not enter.  You have not finished your life. When you have completed your life and continued to be a good person, you will earn your place here.' 

Suddenly, I saw complete darkness. Then, I opened my eyes and realized I was in a hospital bed, with my wife and daughter around me, crying. Apparently, I was out for longer than most cardiac arrest patients and it was a miracle that I had survived. I felt pain, but I was not tired or drowsy. Visiting hours had been over and my wife and daughter had to go home. After I had recovered, I revealed exactly what happened. My wife had a hard time believing it at first, but I told her about the fact that I went to her office and saw the Istanbul real estate apartment and house website on at her desk. She was shocked.  She said that day, her boss had offered her a job in Istanbul and she was wondering what kinds of apartments and houses exist there if she planned to relocate for her job. She said she never looked at that site before and thought that there was no way I could have known that information unless I had been there.  I hadn't been to her office in over 2 months. 

The experience was timeless and vivid.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 26, 2017

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack. While under general anesthesia.      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I had a heart-attack and went into cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  my wife's computer at her office, and the people around me during the experience.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than norma.l   I just felt more real, and I felt oneness with the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole thing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     There was no such thing as time we know on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The vision was much more crisp and made more sense.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was the same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     It was a dark tunnel with a glowing yellowish-whitish light at the end.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     grandpa and dad

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This was the light before, and during the tunnel, I believe it was Allah.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     It was so perfect.  I saw colors of flowers that I had never seen before. I saw my grandfather in his youth, as well as my father.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear, happiness, stress, comfort, all in one. Mostly it was peaceful though. I felt incredible joy when I met dad and grandpa.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I had no questions, as I knew everything. My father, as well as the voice told me the purpose of life is to be good and faithful.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events.     I saw my whole life, from the time of birth to my wedding, to my daughter's birth, to today.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     During my life review, I saw an image of my daughter as an adult and being a model. I also saw her future children.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes.     I could not enter the Mosque with my father and grandfather. I was being pulled back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim.   Very religious.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim.   Still very religious.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I saw religious imagery that was consistent with what I believe, but the afterlife did look different than what I would have guessed beforehand.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I saw a yellowish-white light, and many glimpses of life which I believe were God and Angels.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain.   I saw a light, which I believe may have been Muhammad.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     I know He exists, I heard His voice, and saw religious imagery significant with my faith.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything, and more than I can even remember.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     it was to be a good person and follow religion.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes     I saw people who died, and I know they are living in peace now.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was told by my grandad that everyone is placed somewhere and  some have it worse than others, but everyone will be equal at the end of it all as long as they are good people.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I feel happier and more positive.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I gave the best detail I could, and that still doesn't express it adequately.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I actually still dream about the experience, and I have perfect replay ability of the whole thing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was able to predict things that have come true. For example: sports games, and I have placed bets and won.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        meeting my family, and learning about what lies ahead.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my nurses the day of the experience, and my wife and daughter the same week. I told my friends within the month. Everyone (other than my wife) believed it, and after I told her my verified OBE she believed it too.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.  I was 100% real, and nothing can change my mind. I was there, and I know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It was 100% real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   dreams.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1halil_t_nde.html