{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1haley_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Haley T NDE 7277","mylang":"de"}
          	        Haley T NDE 7277  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Haley T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3707 Haley T NDE 7277  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in labor for three days. My body was exhausted beyond any exhaustion I had ever known. I pushed as long as I could but just gave out. Then I was watching everything from up above and I could see all of these people walking in and out of a door of light. I suddenly found myself standing behind the doctor who was trying to deliver my daughter and I could see the top of her head coming out and blood flowing around it. My body was still and silent but I felt calm and a deep, joyous peace. I had never felt so good in my life. I soon became aware of several people standing with me to watch my daughter's birth. They were encouraging her and I felt an overwhelming sense of love from them for her. One woman was standing next to me with an arm around me. It felt so safe and warm with her. She commented to me softly that my daughter was such a beautiful little girl; but just as her delivery was difficult, so would be her life. Up to the day of delivery, I had been told that my baby was a boy. 

I was confused as to why she would say my baby was a girl, especially with only her head showing by this time. She proceeded to tell me that my daughter would need all of the love and support I could give her so that she would make the right choices when she needed to. Her road was a road less traveled. This woman explained that she knew I wanted to stay on 'this side' but I had to go back to take care of my children and to 'get back on track.' Several of the people congratulated me on the wonderful gift that I was given and told me that I was so precious to them yet I did not know any of them. The woman pulled me back from the group and told me to remember all that she said, gave me a big hug, and told me it was time to go. 

The nurse walked into the delivery room with the supplies the doctor sent her for and she noticed I was not moving. She spoke to me first and then shook me but I was like a rag doll in her hands. The lady who was standing next to me moved me toward my body and told me to go back and to stop scaring the nice nurse. I was reluctant to go back to the chaos of life. I wanted to stay. The next thing I knew, I was on the table in great pain and the people were going back through the door of light. I told the nurse what I was seeing and both she and the doctor had a look of fear on their faces. The doctor hurried to stitch off all the breeders and started to yell out orders. I looked at the door of light as the woman started to go through. She stopped to smile and wave. When she walked through, the door closed. She is the same woman who has been there to meet me on each of my near death experiences. To this day, I long for that feeling and I look forward to going back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  18 July 1988 was my first. I have had 4 NDE's to date

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Other: Unconscious.  I was bleeding out due to childbirth and became unconscious without medical personnel noticing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear and see everything that was happening in the room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was standing behind the doctor talking to the woman; I was aware of everything at the same time. It was all encompassing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was standing behind the doctor talking to the woman; I was aware of everything at the same time. It was all encompassing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was foggy confusion and chaos before but enlightened fulfillment and joy during.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard all things in harmony while I was there. My ears were confused by the chaos surrounding me before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I stood at the doorway and could see a bright hallway of light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I found out later that the woman was my great, great grandmother. I am not sure who all the other people were.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was so bright I had to shield my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was as if we were watching from behind a two way mirror.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm, content, happy, and safe. It was perfect.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     The best way to describe it is to think of it as having a mental cold. Everything is stuffed up and clogged. Your thoughts are sluggish until you are given some mental cold medicine. You suddenly see colors brighter, think better, grasp everything, you are healed.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was not allowed through the door.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Religion is made by man. You do not need a chapel to pray in. God is everywhere.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Angels do not have wings. We all have the potential for greatness, what we do with that is our choice...be it right or wrong. You are never alone. I got my attitude from my guardian angel.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that we are not alone. They are with us all the time. They are as real as you or I but most of us cannot sense or see them. They are here for us, to watch us, guide us, help us, and direct us. Our time here is just a small part of the big picture.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   At the time I did not know who she was but when my grandmother passed away I was going through her things with my mother. I found some pictures that had the woman in them. It was her grandmother, my great, great grandmother.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     They knew my daughter before she was born. They loved her and were with her before she came to this earthly existence. We are all this way.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     You would have to feel it to understand.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   How could you not experience the clarity and love that I have without knowing there are greater things out there?

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are here to learn and mature. We learn to make choices and grow from them. We are making this lesson harder than it should be.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I could see people walking through a door of light. I had contact with them and spoke to them. I could feel them just as I can feel the floor beneath my feet now.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I was told of difficulties that my children would face and that I was their support, not their dictator. I needed to be prepared to guide and direct them so that they could find their path again if they became lost.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     For example, if you hit your thumb with a hammer you learn to use the hammer differently. You may also decide to never touch a hammer again. Either way, it is your choice and you must learn to deal with your choices...just as someone must decide to help y

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the key to all things.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Before my experience, I had the idea that, 'She who dies with the most goodies wins!' Now I strive to be the best I can be so that I can get back as fast as I can. I listen to others more and am more at ease.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I was kind of a wild child before and had a 'screw you' attitude mixed with a bit of 'what can you do for me.' Now I am more inclined to be honestly concerned about your day and if there is any way I can help. I never got along with my Mom but started to call her every day.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to truly describe how it felt there.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can remember the experience as if it just happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can tell if something is wrong with people, places, or things. I know when an event is a pivot point in my life. I know things that I should not be able to know. I dream of people who have information to pass along.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I never felt as safe and as loved as I have with each NDE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me 14 years to talk about it. My daughter was asking if I had ever experienced the same thing she did when she went code blue on the surgery table and asked if she had a brother who had died before her. She told me about David staying with her to keep her safe while they 'fixed' her.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen a blurb about it on a TV show.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real.    I could feel their touch; hear their words just as if you and I were to have a conversation. Things I was told have come true. How could it not be true? Getting others to listen is the hard part.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After four NDEs you know it is real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had three other NDE's and the same woman has always been there to tell me what I needed to know and send me back.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is evil in the world as well as good. It lurks just outside of the light.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1haley_t_nde.html