{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1haley_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Haley L NDE 3778","mylang":"de"}
          	        Haley L NDE 3778  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Haley L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1767 Haley L NDE 3778  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My husband and I were in a car accident at around 9:30 pm on Sunday May 21, 2006. I was driving but luckily, I had my seatbelt on. My husband didn't. My truck went off the shoulder, I jerked it back onto the road and over corrected. It flipped onto the driver side and slid down the road. When it flipped, my husband fell into me, causing my head to slam into the road as we were sliding, knocking me unconscious. My left arm was also caught between the road and the truck.

I drifted in and out of consciousness, remembering my husband said help was on the way. I couldn't move because my arm was trapped. Next thing I remember is a fireman calling my name telling me to hold on; they were going to use the Jaws of Life to get me out. I guess I was losing a huge amount of blood and they had called in a helicopter to take me to the hospital once I was freed.

I lost consciousness again, then that's when it happened. I suddenly wasn't in the truck anymore. I was standing in the road, looking around, but I wasn't in my body. I glanced at the fireman around my truck; saw the lights from the ambulance, police cars. But all of it didn't matter to me for some odd reason.

I felt another presence there that scared me, almost like it was calling for me to come toward it even though IT spoke no words. I didn't want to go to it. I started east down the road, in the direction that would take me home. I wasn't in my body or a car; I was just gliding down the road. I can't explain how that felt. I was going very fast and since I traveled this road for years I knew all the landmarks and remember passing them.

The presence still kept wanting me to come back - now it was like a light, I could see it reflecting past me onto the road ahead. But I refused, I knew if I stopped and went back I would die, at least that is how I felt.

Suddenly I was yanked from this and found myself in the helicopter on my way to the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5/21/06

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was close to bleeding to death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was gliding down the road.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was gliding down the road.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt like I was in a bubble looking out of it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light was behind me, but I never looked at it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw landmarks along the road

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, confused, peace possibly because I wasn't worried about my physical body anymore.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult to explain how I felt because if someone hasn't experience it, they can't understand.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Drifting out of my body - how it didn't bother me I wasn't in it. The experience made me realize how precious life is.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only told a few family members, but they don't believe it. It has been two and half years since my accident, but is still just as vivid to me now as it was then.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I went over and over it in my head and at first tried to brush it off as a dream. It did happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as real to me as when I had a cup of coffee this morning.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1haley_l_nde.html