{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hal_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Hal R NDE 4379","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hal R NDE 4379  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hal R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2172 Hal R NDE 4379  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I sustained a major brain injury, broken back and rib cage from an accident between a bicycle and moving van. I came to in the ambulance.  I passed out in the emergency room.  What actually happened was that my lungs collapsed and I stopped breathing.

After awakening in the hospital, three days later, I was groggy, not knowing where I was or what happened. After a while, I started to piece together what happened. I could remember bicycling, waking up in the ambulance, and then going blank.

What I remembered next was moving down a 'hallway' but not really a hallway.  I was moving by 'scenes with remembrance' and thinking, 'I remember that. I should go in there,' but I didn't. There were many of these 'scenes', one after another, but I did not go into them because I was coerced to keep going.

I came to the end of this 'hallway' it opened up to an infinitely large space. In this space, there were an infinite amount of what I could describe would be souls communicating with each other simultaneously. I was in awe at the magnitude of thoughts being communicated between these souls. I could focus in on one area and pick out the 'conversation'. What I really mean was that thoughts were directly spread between these souls, no words were spoken. I did not see anything, including any light or darkness. I could just sense these communications and I was overwhelmed, not by fear but by joy. Then I was forced (how, I don't know) to turn back.  I traveled back down the 'hallway,' past the same scenes I came in seeing. I remember that I really wanted to go into this one scene to greet them, but I was forced on.  The hallway faded out and that was the end.

I don't remember who those entities were.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  5/25/1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury  shattered vertebr'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the large open space.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the large open space.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This was not visual at all. I would describe it as direct communication, more of a feeling than visual.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same with vision, I felt like I was not hearing, but receiving direct communications.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I would describe it as a 'hallway', I was not confined, but I had to keep moving.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not know them, some of them maybe, too much was communicated, nothing that I could remember.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was neither light nor dark.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The large space at the end of the hall an infinitely large space.  In this space, there were an infinite amount of from what I could describe would be souls communicating with each other simultaneously.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderment, curiosity and joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   All I could describe is that there was an infinite amount of knowledge being passed around.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The large open space, convinced me that there was more to it than life here on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A month later, after I mostly recovered from my injuries. Their reactions were of disbelief.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I actually viewed it as a portal into another realm.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still remember the experience this many years later, as it affected me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hal_r_nde.html