{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1hafur_nde.html","mytitle":"Hafur NDE 3558","mylang":"de"}
          	        Hafur NDE 3558  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Hafur NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1609 Hafur NDE 3558  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I suddenly found myself in complete darkness. There was nothing to grab hold of, until I remembered that I had a body. When I felt love a light came on within my heart, and little by little, it grew larger until it illuminated my body so it was completely floodlit with its own light. I sensed that I was in some kind of cave or dark tunnel, and towards the back, a small light appeared that grew larger to the degree that my own light grew. It got nearer, as if it were a reflection of where I should go.

In the darkness, there were many shadows of people around me, walking without feeling or purpose, like zombies.  I saw on my right a being who didn't show me his face. I thought it was my dead grandfather, because of the suit of English cashmere, his cane and hat that he wore when he was alive. He indicated to me that I shouldn't try to speak with those people because they would pay me no mind.  They were in their own unconscious dream, walking like robots.  This made me sad and feel compassion towards them.

 I decided to continue on my way towards the light at the back of the tunnel and came out upon a very beautiful little beach.  There were many ranges of colors that I have not seen on Earth. They were very clear and sharp but didn't hurt my eyes.  There was very white sand and the blue of the sky and water were very lovely.  The color of the rocks etc. weren't reflections of anything.  They shone their own light.

The figure on my right, who was guiding me, stopped. I could not see his face.  Though we were at a small, enclosed beach, there was a hill that served as a place for projecting my life from beginning to end several times.  At first rapidly and afterwards more slowly.  It was amazing how my life was shown, with events I had completely forgotten about and others that were so insignificant that it felt like I was seeing each frame of the personal movie of my life on Earth. I realized I understood everything with a great clarity and super-lucidity that I had never experienced before.  I discovered that I had personally chosen to take on a physical body and have the life experiences I was having.  I realized I had wasted time in suffering, and what I should have been doing was using my freedom to choose true love, and not pain, in all that came into my life.

I saw that I, myself, had designed the life I would lead before voluntarily coming into this world. I saw that my freedom within a physical body was to be found only by consciously cultivating happiness in all my thoughts, feelings and actions, because I had designed or chosen my own destiny before taking on a physical body.  I realized that there was no judging or punishing God like religions say there is, and it was my mind with an expanded consciousness that judged itself and sifted its actions through the filter of perfect, conscious love.

I returned to the front of the beach and saw on the bottom something like an island in the form of a mountain.  At its peak, in the sky, a very white sun spoke to me telepathically and made me understand everything about life.

 Suddenly, coming out of this light, I saw a myriad of beings dressed in white. They followed someone who carried himself with great magnificence, who had a white beard and wore a kind of tunic-like vestment that was whiter than that of the others and was very beautiful.  He came down on my left to where I was standing, without touching the earth, floating above the peaceful sea.  On his breast, he wore a gold Cross of Malta, surrounded by a circle that was also golden, He looked at me with serenity. 

At the end of the procession of beings was my late father, who also wore a white tunic, and I asked him telepathically, 'What are you doing here, since you have already died?'  He told me in like manner that he was in the world of the living and that I came from the world of the dead on Earth. This greatly surprised me, and I remembered that I had come from Earth and had left my three small children alone.  I looked at the bearded man and asked him to allow me to return to be with them because they needed me.  He agreed and told me I could go back.

All of a sudden, I went to a place lower than the images on my left, and saw a series of rocks in the sand jutting out into the sea. I saw myself sitting on the largest rock, which was between the beach and the sea. I wore a white tunic that was semitransparent (like organza), decorated with twinkling gold stars. I was surprised to see myself pregnant, since my marriage was not a happy one and the last thing I wanted was to be pregnant again. Suddenly there emerged from the sea (I only saw the upper half of his body) a beautiful being, quite young, of white complexion, with very large turquoise blue eyes and golden, curly hair.  He smiled at me and told me telepathically that he was my true husband and sent me his love.  I felt infinite tenderness.  I understood that the kind of love closest to divine love in this life is that which we feel for a small child. 

 As this wonderful feeling came over me, I heard within my heart a voice that said, 'Through love you will understand everything.  The essence, the essence, the essence...'  This was followed by a feeling of great peace mixed with joy within my soul. I sensed that my life would change for the better, and this has been the case ever since because I have a greater understanding of my life's true meaning. 

I then turned to see the light in the sky.  A telepathic force poured a series of codes filled with millennial wisdom into my mind about creation, the world, my life and that of all other beings that inhabit all universes, everything being eternal, spiritual life, everything belonging to it and that the distinctions or differences that we make in this life are done out of ignorance or because we have forgotten this truth. 

As if by a giant magnet, the light drew me to it and I was submerged in its interior where all there was, was light.  I forgot I had a body and felt fused with the light.  In that moment, I experienced a feeling of 'plural unity' and understood everything with extreme clarity.  I discovered what reality is, and saw and understood with my consciousness so alert that it allowed me to comprehend everything with infinite perfection, without any doubt.

From my heart sprang an 'Aha!!!!’ feeling, as if there were something I had always known but had forgotten, and that I can't explain with words or human language. I felt like a co-participant of creation.

 A PART OF WHAT I UNDERSTOOD AND REMEMBER TODAY IS:

***We live in a 'Plural Unity' or 'Oneness'. In other words, our reality is 'Unity in Plurality and Plurality in Unity’.     

***I was everything and everything was me, without essential differences other than in temporal appearances. 

***There is no external god, but that god is in everything and everything in god, just as life itself.

***There is no God outside ourselves but is, rather, in everything and everything is a part of God, as is life itself.

***God is everything and nothing at the same time.

***Everyone and everything, or temporal phenomenon within this dimension, is where it should be because it emanates from the blueprint of a shared dream (if we can call it that) that is repeated indefinitely until we understand what is essential or real.

***Everything is part of an essential game of life itself, and that to the degree that we live by true love, unconditional and universal, the closer we are to an understanding what life truly is, which is true happiness and perfect wisdom.       

***Everything is experience and that this life and the next are essentially the same because everything is god.  Nothing is outside of god just as nothing is outside of life itself.

***Death is a metamorphosis of time.  One more illusion from our mental concepts.  Essentially, time does not exist, nor does space.  They are illusions of our creative mind that plays a game of self-deception in the creation of events. 

***'I' includes 'We' and are like a mirror where we perceive the reflection of our reality in its many facets and illusions. 

***The 'creator' is eternally creating, and one of the creations is the practice of conscious love.  'One learns to paint by painting'.  That's why this 'temporal human illusory creation' exists as though it were a matrix within another matrix and this, within another - multi-dimensionally until we wake up.

***I experienced something that can't be transmitted with words but that can be expressed as 'The Essence of Life is its Total Nothingness’ (please understand 'Nothingness' as something that has no intrinsic substance, but is rather constructed by a multitude of phenomena, which in turn are formed by other untold multitude of phenomena to the point of infinity). I understood that intangible, indescribable life is all that exists.  There is no death (it's only a description to show the polarities in the world of phenomena).

***Consciously living by love is the essence of life itself and is made manifest or materializes in this plane of existence as a cohesive force to recreate itself in multiple forms as a game in which nothingness recreates itself in temporary, illusory events.

***The known universe is a fraction of infinite reality that by love has become finite pieces in our temporal 'hands'.

***I learned thousands of other things without end, and it is difficult to express in words because words are insufficient, they can't describe what I experienced in this other state of consciousness that was much clearer than this one.

When I returned to this life, I felt I had fallen into a very heavy space, and that my body was as lead and my mind was the same and very slow.

I saw my loved ones, family and friends as if they were nothing to me. They were only reflections in the great theater of life, and each one voluntarily agreed to play a part in order to learn more and better how to love. I spoke with them to tell them of my experience, and they looked at me as though I were crazy.  I realized they didn't understand what I was saying to them. 

Little by little, my experience grew faint, but there appeared many new special experiences of telepathy, intuition developed between others such as voluntary out of body experiences and involuntary bi-location.  I especially cannot control the latter, and I would like to know using conventional language how this phenomenon happens.

I only know that everything is eternal, pure consciousness and that we are in a mental dream that is permanently being constructed as a dynamic of consciousness that knows itself and recreates itself through each one of us. That we are the 'point of emptiness' where the void or nothingness of the universe becomes aware of itself.  It is really hard to explain this.  I know that everything I saw originates from thoughts, or the Universal Mind.  It is projected in images and events that interact with lucid consciousness as an experience, and that this whole experience is a part the infinitude of that which is real on every plain or level of existence that we want to invent or divide into pieces so that our temporal mind can decipher it despite its limitations.  I believe I understood that what we call God is the silence of indescribable life that is in everything, and everything is in it. As an analogy, we could use the image of steam, converted into water, then into ice. Once it is in that state, ice forgets that it is steam with its capacity for expansion.  This is what happens to us in this plane of consciousness. I believe I understood that what we call God is the silence of indescribable life that is in everything and in which everything exists or is within it.  A marvelous, loving and conscious eternity.

Note:  I feel that all the images that were created in my mind during this experience, before entering into the light, are symbolic thought forms of something perhaps more profound that could serve in support of a translation of that which is essential experience.  It is impossible to explain with our limited human language, yet I am now trying to decipher it little by little.

I noticed a change in the speed my mind worked and developed my intuition or universal perception of life.  It is difficult to translate with my physical brain, that which is essential or infinite with conventional language.

Perhaps through the art of telepathic communication, soul to soul, it can be done.  I will continue trying to do this, and will try see if someone who has experienced this same phenomenon, or who has had a similar experience, has another part of the verbal puzzle. Among all of us, we can put together a clearer picture that can benefit those who do not read.

I ask your indulgence for my limitations and hope that I haven't confused anyone.  I will conclude by saying:

'From but one piece of clay, many forms can be made'.

'All mental designs crystallize in fleeting forms of nothingness'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  NO RECUERDO EXACTO: COMO EN 1978/79 MAS O MENOS

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    ESTABA EN CASA Y ME SENTI MUY MAL DE SALUD Y ME FUI A RECOSTAR A MI CAMA.  Other 'REALMENTE NO SE QUE PASO, CREO QUE TAL VEZ TUVE MUY BAJA LA PRESION ARTERIAL. SUFRIA DE ESO Y EMOCIONALMENTE TAMBIEN.'  Whenever I have lost consciousness, for one reason or another, there has never been any warning that it was going to happen other than maybe feeling faint or feeling bad or something, and then BANG! It just happens, like that.  In fact, if it weren't for the fact that I have come back to 3D consciousness, I would never know anything happened.  I don't know what your experience has been with this, but this is what I have experienced.  DR JEFF COMMENT:  Having a medical condition where this happens, then having a NDE associated with 'come back to 3D consciousness' is sufficient to confirm NDE.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I entered into the light.  I entered into the 'void' and into 'everything' at the same time.  I became fused with the light and reality became aware of itself.  I realized everything was God and is permanently creating. Nothingness creating nothingness.  Truthfully, I do not know how to express or transmit this with words.  They limit me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no space or time in the void.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The clarity and colors are indescribable.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clarity of understanding without sound, by telepathy, also inexplicable.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     LA QUE MAS ME GUSTO FUE EL VACIO, PORQUE ENTENDI TODO

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Super-lucid consciousness, infinite tenderness and complete peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything is recorded in a universal memory, even the most insignificant things.  I took form in my body voluntarily and designed the life I would experience in order to learn how to truly love more and better.  Everything we do should be done from true love, without ulterior motives and without judgment: unconditional and universal.  There is only one law: LIFE.  Death does not exist.  We are all God.  Our own super-lucid consciousness is what judges us with love. The kind of human love that most resembles divine love is infinite tenderness.  What we think or want to think is what is, come what may.  In this way, the universe is constructed.  It is like a game of consciousness that recognizes itself and recreates itself through each one of us, and at the same time, we are the 'point of nothingness' in which life becomes self-aware. It is difficult to express this.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very clearly.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't practice any religion.  I see them as being very discriminatory.  The only thing that unites all the religions is the love that I feel there to be and to which they want to arrive and incorporate into life.  The true essence.  The bad thing is that there is much confusion and fanaticism.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't practice any religion.  I see them as being very discriminatory.  The only thing that unites all the religions is the love that I feel there to be and to which they want to arrive and incorporate into life.  The true essence.  The bad thing is that there is much confusion and fanaticism.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This is what I hope someone can help me with.  In my mind, there remains a footprint of something that will be of help to many, but I don't know how to explain it in words. Perhaps there is another way to convey it?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Now I see life in an entirely different way.  Before I saw it as lineal but now as a totality.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The infinite tenderness, the perception and understanding of life and of everything, the nothingness and perfect knowledge and wisdom.  My words cannot express the experience nor what I understood.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many.  Among them:  Super-lucid dreams, premonitions, intuitive perceptions of the thoughts of other people, voluntary and involuntary out of body experiences, and five times I have experienced being in more than one place at a time, etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I fused with the light.  I think I have something in my mind that could help humanity and I can't remember what it is.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I sought help from several people so they could help orient me. Some of them didn't believe me and thought my experience to have been a fantasy, others thought me strange or I made them afraid.  For these reasons I avoid telling the experience, but people who are kindred souls believe me although do not know how to explain what happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it as more real than this life.  I feel that we are asleep in this life.  It is more dense, like lead and heavy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because everything was clearer.  My mind was super-lucid and everything was understandable.  In this life I feel as though I am in a dream and everything is very slow.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like someone to help me experience the 'all knowingness' again, to remember with clarity what I experienced and thus help humanity.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like to meet a serious researcher who would like to help me.  Thanks.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hafur_nde.html