{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gwen_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Gwen P NDE 3014","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gwen P NDE 3014  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gwen P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1066  Gwen P NDE  3014  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In the sixth month of my pregnancy, I KNEW that something was going to go wrong. I was well, in good health, yet I started marking off the days until my due date. My husband said that I was crazy, that nothing was going to happen. I told him that either my baby was going to die, or both of us would. A month later, in late December of 1968 - I got the flu. I called the doctor and he prescribed medications. I had a raging fever for three days; the flu had turned to pneumonia. My baby was born six weeks early. He lived two days.

I remember going to the hospital and being put onto a cart.  Then I given medications. I remember being rushed down a hall with lots of people around me. Then there was nothing. Suddenly I was jerking, and my body being lifted off the cart. This happened three or four times. My cousin's wife told me afterward that eight people had been working on me, that my heart had stopped.

Sometime between the efforts of those to start my heart - I found myself in a tunnel. I believe that I saw figures on my right, and left sides as I went down this tunnel. And then I saw this light, like the sun's light, but buffered. A beautiful white light with touches of gold. A wonderful warmth radiated from it. He spoke to me, not verbally, but I heard him in my heart. The thoughts were loving and kind coming from HIM, but I do not remember what was said. I begged, and pleaded to be allowed to return. I had a four year old daughter, and was concerned about her future without me. So I didn't say 'please, please take me', I said 'please, please let me return'. And I did.

Now it's strange because I did not experience the out of body experience before dying. I was lying in bed in my room. I was also up on the ceiling looking down at myself. Two men walked into the room. One of them told the other that they thought they had lost me. The other said, 'Well what did you do?' The first man said, 'We didn't give up - we just kept working on her.' I then returned to my body. Neither of those doctors even suspected that I overheard their conversation.

I have had trouble with my blood pressure for years, since that time in fact. When I went to the doctor last year, they took tests. She later told me that I had had a heart attack in the past. I just shrugged my shoulder. LOL I never speak of that time to anyone. I have told a few people about the experience, and they would just look at me like I was nuts. LOL.

I did learn some wonderful lessons from my experience. One, I had doubts about life after death until that time. I was a believer in Jesus, but couldn't accept life after physical death. Two, I have been more sensitive to those around me, given an extra measure of Mercy since that time. Three, I do not fear death now. There is pain and suffering in disease, but death is just a doorway to the Warmth, Love, and Acceptance of the LORD.

I was not ever supposed to have more children; I had two more healthy babies. I could not get life insurance when I was thirty, because I was not supposed to live long. I am now sixty-four, and have been blessed with more years of life than many others who were born in the same year as me.

I guess that is all to my story. It's not fancy! No angels, no heavenly music - BUT the LIGHT - and HE is more than enough.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    01/06/1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth  'Flu, high fever, kidney failure, heart stopped'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Severe pneumonia with organ failure.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I met the God of Creation.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I met the God of Creation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was 'all time', how do I describe this? I knew that I was at the gate. I knew that there was no time then - it had stood still for me. I was very aware of what was happening. It was as though time was in double time, yet wasn't moving at all. Does that make sense? I don't think so, but that is how it was.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Wore glasses for years, didn't have them on - needless to say. Everything was crystal clear. I don't remember many colors. Maybe, everything just blurred in the Light of God.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard with my soul.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     All I can say - it was a tunnel, but don't remember any color. I remember it seemed as if I was flying - a breeze pushing me. It was as though I could see that breeze on either side of me? Passing people on the sides of me?

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I didn't meet the people in the tunnel. I never thought of this, but maybe they were there to help me. Now that I remember, I believe that there was someone with me, alongside of me - when I came to the light.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A beautiful light, a soft and glowing light. Warm, with fringes of yellow coming from the center of that light. Such JOY to be in HIS presence.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Gee, at first I wondered - 'What the heck is going on here?' But I enjoyed it, peering in on a conversation without the knowledge of those deep within it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I have always believed. I sometimes wondered if God was listening to me before the experience, but after - I knew - and know that he is always listening.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have always believed. I sometimes wondered if God was listening to me before the experience, but after - I knew - and know that he is always listening.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew my real purpose, which was to follow the LORD.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Oh yes. Never was patient before, now have lots, and lots of patience. I have a lot of discernment too, which I didn't have before. I have empathy, and understand that none of us are ever going to be perfect in this life.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My gift of Mercy. I also have been able to put my hands several inches above a person, or animal and feel their current. I can feel where there is a problem. I do not use this. I also seem full of electric current myself. I can be petting one of my cats, and sparks will fly. I am Charged. LOL.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It was the fact that I was so loved by God that he actually allowed me a glimpse of Himself, so that I might know that life is forever. I just feel really bad that I kicked up such a fuss to return. I knew that I would see HIM again someday. My heart was torn into with worry about my little girl.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Took years before I described my experience. No one reacted just glared. I don't know if anyone was influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It has always been real to me that will never - ever change.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I carry this experience with me for the rest of my life. I am far, far from perfect. But my experience changed my basic outlook on the gift of life to us.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Is there anything else you would like to add concerning the experience? Yes, another experience: I ran off a two lane highway going fifty miles an hour. Trying not to hit an armadillo. I guess I was about fifty at the time. As I headed toward the four foot ditch, my life passed in front of my eyes. I said 'God, Please don't let me get hurt, God, Please don't let me get hurt.' The car rolled over three times, front to back. As I left that lonely road - I felt arms enfold me. I felt protected and warm. When the car finally landed, facing the direction that I came from, all the windows busted. Smoke poured out of the dashboard. I turned off the motor. The passenger side window was open enough for me to crawl out onto the ground. Someone saw me go off the road, turned around and came back to me. I was standing on the roadside at that point, I was taken to the fire department, and then to the hospital. I had forgotten my purse in the car. The next day, a fireman came out with my purse. He looked stunned when I opened the front door. I asked, 'What's wrong?' He said, 'Miss, I saw that car you were in, and we should have had to use the Jaws of Life to get you out of it. And at that, if you weren't dead, you shouldn't have been walking.' I bumped my elbow in that accident. Don't tell me I don't have a guardian angel looking out for me, because his big loving arms were wrapped around me to protect me when my car went off the road.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think that it is wonderful that you folks are investigating this experience. I just know that it is real for me, and millions of others. Keep up the good work.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gwen_p_nde.html