{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gwen_nde.html","mytitle":"Gwen NDE 1065","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gwen NDE 1065  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gwen NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1268 Gwen NDE 1065  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself in a black void. The difference was flashes of vivid light bars. I felt myself walking on them, from one to another always moving forward. The colors were magenta, turquoise blue, fuchsia, lemon yellow and iridescent orange and purple. I finally woke up in the surgical room still talking. I knew I lost some time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/02/1999 and again this year but different

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    brain tumor exploded and I had to keep talking or I knew I would die  Life threatening event, but not clinical death My heart stopped but I was given a shot to revive my heart to beat.  My blood pressure was stroke level  My brain tumor exploded, usual event for this is death.  #2 Vegetable state.  #3 Retardation and loss of body control.  #4 Blindness.  #5 Recovery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious to talk or see anyone.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I feel that I lost some time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    But in March of this year, I was staying with my lady. I heard a man's voice say NOW. There was a light behind me that cannot be explained physically. I ended up in a heart block and had a pace-maker put in.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel with neon lights showing me the way.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Neon beams, someone suggested I was coming back.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Dimensions could have been the neon beams they were on different heights.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Life is a beautiful gift live it to the fullest and share this with others.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Yes, I needed to start talking again.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Non practicing Catholic but a believer

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have some unfinished things to do here.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I lost the vision on my right eye (my good) one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They told me I must have been coming back from death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I never took acid but some people say it reminds them of one.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I had access to all medical documentation I might be able to place the event in a more explicit time frame.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gwen_nde.html