{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guy_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Guy S NDE 2323","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guy S NDE 2323  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Guy S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						675  Guy S NDE  2323  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I went to bed after a few beers about 1:00 am. My girlfriend was asleep in the bed, I felt a bit asthmatic but soon fell asleep. The next thing I remember I could see myself sitting cross-legged in the air above me as if on a cloud. I was smiling down at myself, even laughing, then very quickly I was floating up a tunnel with very brilliant white light at it end. This light contained overwhelming love, more love and beauty than I can express, and a presence of Jesus Christ. There was a presence of a life form with me, in the tunnel, guiding me, but this seemed not important at the time. I was then spoken to by a voice, which asked me whether I wanted to finish my task on earth, or not? I was told that my task was to find out about all aspects of love. As attractive as the light and energy was, I said I would come back to earth, I had a choice, and chose to be here. I then rapidly found myself waking up to a full blown asthma attack covered in sweat and breathing not very well. In minutes, I came out of this asthmatic state and felt very happy that there was life with Christ after death. I have not had an asthma attack that bad ever since.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1990 summer.  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Asthma attacks.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through the whole experience I was totally aware.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Can't explain.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went about half way up a tunnel, which was like a giant womb with bright light at its end.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt the presence of Christ in the light, and also a being guiding me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright, brilliant, fantastic white light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE, beauty, security, happy, NO fear!!  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     My task on earth was to learn all aspects of LOVE.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I was going to Christ when I died.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Firm beliefs in GOD and JESUS CHRIST.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   strong faith and belief in Jesus Christ. But not church goer.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Firm beliefs in GOD and JESUS CHRIST.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we all need to learn all aspects of LOVE, and there was something very special when we died.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Relationships are harder, as I try to always do the loving thing, this can be very testing and taken advantage of.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It made my life much harder in some ways as I find life hard and sometimes think of going to that place, permanently.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this with my girlfriend at the time, and many people since, and have been repeatedly surprised at peoples' lack of interest.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was killed outright when I was five years old but have little or no memory of this, I was resuscitated.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a clear message from God or Christ that life doesn't end with death.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The feeling and thoughts are real to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have more tears and sadness than before, and can feel peoples pain very deeply, I feel other peoples loss as if it's me sometimes. People are scared of me, they have so much fear!! I can also feel a greater love yet can't find it in others. Life can be so lonely.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guy_s_nde.html