{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guy_nde.html","mytitle":"Guy NDE 40","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guy NDE 40  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Guy NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						95  Guy NDE  40  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


I died.  Simply, I died.  I was there, in the ICU....They were trying to save me...but I still died. Death was not bad.  Jesus was really there.  He and I were looking over the edge of the pit, sort of looking at where hell was.  It reminded me of when I was little, looking over the edge of a bridge to the water below....it wasn't scary, just looking.  He put His Arm around me.  He loved me.  Perhaps we were looking back at earth, I don't know.  I want more recollection of it all, because it is so important.. but as I said above, they were giving me medicines, and I just can't remember everything.  But I know I was There!!  And I know I died.  And I know that I woke up again in my own body, and I was SO SAD.  Sad beyond words.  I had been to Freedom with God...now I was trapped back here.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/98

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  pneumonia  died 3 times  Clinical death I was dying from pneumonia.  No air.  No heartbeat.  3 times.  What can I say?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was just "Myself" for whatever that means.  I know the Doctors and Nurses were doing there best to help me, I know they wanted to save me...but I was already far away by then. And it was much better there than here.  I thank them for their hard work, and their concern, but where I was, was still better than here.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was pretty alert.  Aware of pain, and their efforts to save my life just before I slipped away.  It was better there, than it is here.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard things going on around me in the ICU.  I heard the people.  I heard their concern.  And then, whooooosh, I was somewhere else.  And I liked it there.  It was warm.  It was friendly.  God was there.  All was well.  And it was better there.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I went through a 'barrier' yes.  Not a tunnel, not that light tube thing that so many people describe.... but some sort of 'barrier', yes.  I went from 'here' to 'there'.  I don't know 'where' that is, but it was nice there, and I was so angry when I found out that I was not there anymore.  Still so angry

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Jesus was there.  He was kind, warm, gentle, loving, and he cared about me.  He received me.  He is REAL.  I always believed in Him before...but now I can promise that he is REAL.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   see above answer

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      emotions?  Try to describe the universe.  That's how I felt.  There is no explanation.  It is beyond all words I know.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I was here and then I died.  And then I went "there".  I don't know how to describe it.  But it was wonderful, it was warm, it was nice, and I much prefer it to here.  I did not want to come back to here.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was sent back...but I did not want to come back.  I wanted to stay there.  Living is the hard part.  Being with God is the good part.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am such a different person.  Not much that I thought was important before I died really is important.  Now I feel foreign to this world.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Absolutely no one can understand where I have been, unless they have been there too. I have tried to explain this to my family members....but to no avail.  I feel alone.  I feel like no one really understands where I have been.  Impossible to communicate??  That's an understatement!  There aren't any words that I can find to describe what happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       worst:  I feel so disconnected from everything around me now.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    No one believes me.  They say it was just drugs and medicines.  But I know for real I was there.  There is another place beyond here; Jesus is there.  This is not the end.  There is so much more to life.  No one who was not been there will understand you .  When you talk about it.  IF they have not been there, they will say you are crazy.  You're not!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guy_nde.html