{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gunter_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Gunter P NDE 2067","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gunter P NDE 2067  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gunter P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						518  Gunter P NDE  2067  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  Preventing a possible double murder by a drug addict and his friends of the drug addicts ex-girlfriend and her mother, I ended up being kicked in the head approximately twenty times (as I found out later). After the first kick to the head, I was unconscious (apparently for a period of about ten minutes).

During this period of unconsciousness, I saw three men, dressed in white short-sleeved shirts and long white trousers, who warned me of events to come. At that stage, their described scenario seemed to be absolutely unlikely. However, as things unfolded every one of their predictions came true to the last detail. The thing hardest to believe in the beginning was the 'membership' of the three entities.

It was stated that these beings are members of the 'Universal Justice Command' or UJC. If the rest of their predictions are as accurate as the events concerning me personally, we are going to be in for a rough time yet - and this is going to be worldwide. If you can, please let me know of other people who had contact with the UJC.

Please allow such people to contact me via email for further discussions and experience exchanges.

If you need further details, please don't hesitate to contact me.

Yours sincerely, Gunter P





-------------------------

Dear Jody,



Since posting my NDE on the 11/07/2004, I have received dozens of enquiries regarding future world events as perceived by me via the UJC.

I would hereby like to thank all the people interested in my story and give them what I know so far.

World domination by the Government of the United States will not happen.

People wanting to survive the coming troubles (in the next seven to twenty-five years - exact dates cannot be given, as they depend on the behavior and actual happenings in the meantime) should try to increase their spirituality as far as they are able to. This in itself will give them some of the answers they are looking for. Deception, lies, mistreatment of others of any kind (especially against children) will be punished severely by the UJC. Real low-lives will even have their souls destroyed. Going to churches on Sundays while being hypocritical will not save anyone. Every single person is responsible for his or her actions and will be judged accordingly by the UJC.

The North American continent as well as the rest of the world will undergo changes, which we could not imagine even in our wildest dreams (or nightmares).

Part of this is due to the damage done to the environment already, but the larger part will be affected by the misdeeds of the populations of the world in general.

If things carry on the way they've been going for the last one and a half centuries, about 80% of the human population will perish.

The survivors will know peace and co-operation of a kind the world has not seen in many millennia. All survivors will be helped to attain greater spirituality than they could currently possibly imagine. Life on this little planet will seem like another world altogether.

As any perceptive person will have noticed, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, draughts, floods, horrendous storms, etc. are already increasing at a faster and faster rate. The near future will see these natural events become more and more violent and frequent. Unexplainable accidents and crimes will increase at an alarming rate until intervention by off-world entities will occur.

The US Governments 'Star Wars' program will prove to be woefully inadequate and be eliminated within a few minutes when the time comes. Those around at the time will know what real terror is, but it will be too late for about 80% of the world's population. Even those in the deepest caves such as Cheyenne Mountain will not be spared. Apparently, only those who have learned and mended their ways will stand a chance of survival. Area 51 and S4 also won't be safe. As a matter of fact, some of the goings on there will precipitate part of the destruction.

At this stage, this is all I want to say, but many of these future events should be able to be confirmed by 'Remote Viewers', which currently or in the past have worked for the US government.

Jody, could I please ask you to post this information in your forum?

Until next time

I remain

Yours sincerely

Gunter P

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/21/1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack   Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Kicked to unconsciousness.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entities were all I could see against a plain lit background - all my earthly surroundings had disappeared. The beings left the impression that they are far advanced from our 'civilization' and are the highest form of life in the Universe - acting as a sort of Police or Justice Command. Very vivid.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Virtually during the whole of the period in which the UJC people were giving me information. After they left, I was slowly coming to. According to witnesses, I was incoherent for several minutes thereafter and very thirsty.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Background to the entities was lit relatively brightly, but not hurting the eyes. The light was comfortable and comparable to fluorescent lighting.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Being privileged to be in the presence of such highly spiritual entities.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        So far all predicted events happened exactly as foretold.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe (know) in the existence of the UJC. Apparently we all have to face the UJC after this earthly existence and account and be responsible for all our actions.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe (know) in the existence of the UJC. Apparently we all have to face the UJC after this earthly existence and account and be responsible for all our actions.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Having some infrequent contact with the UJC.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being allowed the contact.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Next day. Incredulity. As events unfolded, they realized that something had to be to the story, as predictions were spot on.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Nearly drowned as a child. Saw the whole pool from above and the little fellow drowning down there. Solution to problem made me become conscious again under water. Carried out solution and survived.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience vivid, predictions came true.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Experience vivid, predictions came true.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to see all people to strive for high spirituality - to minimize their consequences afterwards.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gunter_p_nde.html