{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gungil_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Gungil Possible NDEs 166","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gungil Possible NDEs 166  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Gungil Possible NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						10071  Gungil Possible NDEs  166  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 First Experience description:


When I was 7 year old, I had my first NDE, and the memory came across my mind when I had second experience: I had like-experience, like-feeling, when I was very young!  But, three experiences are not same but have something in common. Let me tell my first experience to you: I had been in the hospital with a high fever for a month or so. One day, the nurse that took my temperature shouted, prepare for alcohol pack. Soon, my doctor came. The nurse took my clothes off and began applying a pack to my front body. I thought the saying that a nurse is an angel in white gown is a lie because my nurse was treating me painfully at that moment.  I felt my surroundings came into me (a funnel called me) like a movie screen. I looked at the clear light and I shouted "관세음 보살(Kwon Sem Bo Sal: one of Buddhas' names)" and then I was alive and left the hospital.


Second Experience description:


I'd like to tell you my second NDE. My second NDE made me thankful for everything of the world. I wonder if My second NDE is the real NDE.


I wonder you know about the educational circumstances in Korea. I always thought, why should I study and live when I am going to die. Moreover, I thought I would not go to school if I was an orphan.  Anyway, I entered into university.


The university taught me to drink alcohol.  My friend passed a liquor glass around but I could not drain the cup because I had been sick with tuberculosis. I finally quit my medication on summer vacation of my first year.  One day I drank too much. The next day, I got up early in the morning. One of my seniors said to me there was a mess last night because you were breathless. However, I could not remember.


On the same day, I climbed to the top of the mountain Hanra. (highest in south Korea)


I was in the stupid condition. (I could not express it well.). At the next night, we went to dancing. I danced. At that moment, I felt as my surroundings were coming into me. I was too astounded to dance more.


One or Two days passed. I was sleeping. I fell down the black tunnel with high speed and saw the bright Red Cross. I opened my eyes with surprise at the almost same time, I felt as my body jumped. That was very euphoric. Moreover, I saw the look of my friend from high school.  I suddenly seemed to know why we should live I thanked for everything.


Third Experience description:


I'd like to give you a detailed account of my third story some time later.  The short version is as follows:


After My third NDE, I started to try to search for something related with NDE. First, I read the books like Tibetan book of the dead, Life after Life, Life before Life, Upanisad, The Dhammapada, TAO TE CHING etc.


I had a trauma in my second year, and I was sick with tuberculosis again. I recovered my health after I had the third NDE. At that time, I thought NDE could recover our memory that disappeared because of a trauma. NDE make us to review bygones, as you know.  I was studying psychology.


At that time, I thought I'm never related with NDE and It is okay to live like now. Moreover, I wanted to know something scientifically. So I majored in life science. Now, I work at an immunology lab.  However, I was tormented by my doubts about the present state of things.


I was not busy on last vacation, just then I started to search about NDE at the web. So I found several important web page. Moreover, I came to know there are many NDErs and I'm not alone.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gungil_possible_nde.html