{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gulden_nde.html","mytitle":"Gulden NDE 2837","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gulden NDE 2837  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gulden NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1465 Gulden NDE 2837  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I don't know how many days I was in the clinic but I was in the Izmir Ege University Neurosurgery Section. On the right temporal lobe was a bleeding and I had in my brain nine times more veins/arteries than an average human did. (I had a kind of veins/arteries accumulation.) This was the cause of the hemorrhaging. Since 06/06/2000, I was in the clinic but the date for surgery was on 20/06/2000, because the doctors had to make the decision which of the veins/arteries they had to cut out.

In the three weeks of my time after the surgery in the clinic, I was conscious but I don't remember that, but raising above my bed. I felt raising up above my bed, taking direction to a white, very bright light. Meantime, I saw my uncle, who died one month ago, while passing me he said, 'Not yet.' I was surprised how I understood him without spoken words, but I felt very peaceful. Later a lady came to me, if I saw her now, I would recognize her. She took me to a wonderful place with mountains and said that this was the place of my life. The place we went was beautiful, but I said to her that this place is not my life's place.

Then we came to a seashore with a little village and she said again that this place was my life, but I didn't know this place and I said to her that this is not the place of my life. After we travelled to some more very beautiful places, she said that I was not ready to stay in these places and asked me what I remembered about my life. The first thing I remembered was my mother and I fell with high speed down. I felt how I fell into my body, woke up, and asked my mother if she was my mother, who was sitting at my bed side. My mother was confused and said that she was my mother. I had a blanket on me, a gift from my close friend and I wanted her to verify this. I said the name of my boyfriend and wanted to know from her if he was real. She said that he was real and started crying. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 18.06.2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         06.06.2000 TARİHİNDE BEYİN KANAMASI GEÇİRDİM VE 20.06.2000 TARİHİNDE BEYİN AMELİYATI OLDUM. AMELİYATTAN HEMEN SONRA HATIRLADIĞIM "TEK ŞEY" İ ARAŞTIRMAYA BAŞLADIM VE BUNUN ÖLÜME YAKIN DENEYİM OLDUĞUNU ÖĞRENDİM.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   In that time, I was in the clinic and the surgery was just over.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was in the clinic, I was conscious, too. I spoke to the visitors and could make jokes but while I recall only very few of this, I remember my experience like it was yesterday. I think the wonderful white light and the peace I felt can't be made forgotten by anything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the beginning of my experience - raising above my body, till I fell into my body - I was conscious.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There was no definition of time. Universe and dimension were not, because earth time can be scaled in seconds - in seconds, we changed places and travelled.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Nothing can compare to the white bright light I saw.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was like the communication was not with voice but with brain waves. We talked but didn't move lips.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Not like a tunnel; it was like a path with a white light in the end.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my uncle. I saw a lady, whom I think was my guardian angel. And I met some people but I didn't felt like a stranger.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw very bright white light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     DAĞLIK YEMYEŞİL BİR YER,DENİZ KIYISINDA KÜÇÜK BİR KASABA,ORMANIN İÇİNDE BAŞKA BİR YER... BURALARIN HEPSİNİN BENİM HAYATIM OLDUĞUNU SÖYLEDİLER VE SANKİ BURADA KALMAM GEREKİYORMUŞ GİBİ HİSSETTİRDİLER ANCAK BEN BURALARI TANIYIP BİLMEDİĞİMİ SÖYLEDİM.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great happiness and great peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   %99U MÜSLÜMAN OLAN BİR ÜLKEDE MÜSLÜMAN BİR AİLENİN ÇOCUĞUYUM ANCAK DİNİ GEREKLİKLERİ YERİNE GETİRDİĞİM SÖYLENEMEZ.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   ŞİMDİKİ İNANCIMI DİNE BAĞLILIK DEĞİL DE İNANÇLI OLARAK TANIMLAYABİLİRİZ. BENCE BU DİNLER ÜSTÜ BİR İNANÇ.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The definition of peace is very personal. I learned that death is nothing to be scared of. I can write much better and beautifully, and I can make more beautiful paintings.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I meet people with more joy. I hardly get angry. My daily life is full of love and peaceful. I feel pleasure by helping to strangers.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I don't think my experience was unique to this world. That's why the words I use from earth can't define my experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     High premonition. In some places, I felt the energy of this place, in my body. People come to me when they have pain, and I can say where their pain is, before they say it to me, I touch the painful area and I can take it away. I think this has to do with raising up my bio-energy. I don't think I am a healer.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To see my uncle was very important to me. The white light and the great peace was definitely wonderful emotion. My guardian angel and being greeted when we die made me not scared of death anymore.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I am now a happy person, smiling in my eyes, spreading positive energy in the places I go. I told my experience at first to my close friends, they were confused. My family knows only a little of this, because I know, they would not believe me. My physician said that the painkillers and drugs could have caused the feeling of living this experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think you cannot interpret this, you only know that it is real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think that my life ended at one point but I think I live the time which is a gift and that is why I try to make the best of it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gulden_nde.html