{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guittard_nde.html","mytitle":"Guittard NDE 906","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guittard NDE 906  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Guittard NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						384  Guittard NDE  906  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My sister, two years younger than me, and I were at the swimming pool. I wanted to teach her to swim better; she had gained more confidence and was less fearful of water. I decided that it was time for her to leave the kids swimming pool and to go to the bigger one. We started to swim and then they announced that the five meters diving boards were going to be open for demonstrations. Since it was happening in some other pool, we were nearly alone. So we went on swimming up to the middle of the pool, until all of sudden my sister realized that she couldn't touch the bottom and started to panic. She held on tight to my neck, screaming and struggling.


I started to be fearful too, she was getting uncontrollable and she finally got over the top of my head. I was drowned under water; the first minute was awful, I wanted to live. Then came a kind of giving up. I didn't want to let my sister die. I had two choices; swim to the side of the pool; or keep her out of the water; I was fearful about facing my parents so I stayed there. The lack of air was beginning to be felt, I wanted to breathe, but I was keeping my mouth closed.


Then, an incredible well-being, I felt lightness, happiness, my body felt like cotton wool, I was only love and here words are too weak, there are none in the dictionary which can describe this moment of intense ecstasy. Meanwhile, my whole life was flashing by in detail, and I was staying there looking at the images with such a feeling of inner peace. There were also stars of light showering down on me, through me. I must admit that I don't remember now which came first, the life movie or the stars, but I remember that it was extraordinary.


Meanwhile, my sister was screaming and nobody came to the rescue because they thought we were playing games.


When I opened my eyes, we were beside the swimming pool, legs shaking, and not understanding what had really been going on. We didn't dare talk about it to our parents because we had gone to the pool behind their back. We talked about it only years later, five years ago. To my astonishment, my sister had been experiencing this quite differently. According to her, while I was feeling this great happiness, I grabbed her underneath, gave her a blow -- seemed like a man's hand since it was so strong and big -- and took her to the side of the pool. I don't remember anything like that and I'm still amazed that we could make it to the side of the pool.


What happened during the first following year, visions of catastrophes, which unfortunately happened, for example the earthquakes in Italy during the 1980's. I was in the classroom when I felt the earthquake and heard people screaming. I stood up and I shouted what was happening. People were shocked and started laughing. They were laughing less when the drama happened.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Summer 1981   :été 1981

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     drowning:  noyade  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Normal, feeling happy to be in the water.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I had the feeling that the whole experience lasted for a quarter of an hour, but it took five minutes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No, rather peaceful.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not at the moment, but later on, yes.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happiness, a burst of universal love, joy and so much more.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     Later, yes.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     There was something more wonderful in this world, close to us without being able to see or touch it, but which was there somehow.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wanted to stay there, but it turned out differently.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe in a unique God and reincarnation.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Words can't describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Rather auditory than visual, beside certain great catastrophes where the images are superimposed in front of my eyes. It can be smells also. I don’t control this, sometimes I feel intensively, some other times nothing happens.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: having the experience. The worst: coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some have stopped to phone me, some others do it more, for some the testimony represented hope or a calling into question of their own beliefs.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   A small part through acupuncture.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Did people want to come back or to stay where they were?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guittard_nde.html