{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guillermo_nde.html","mytitle":"Guillermo NDE 769","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guillermo NDE 769  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Guillermo NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						287  Guillermo NDE  769  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

During surgery my blood pressure fell and they told me they had to inject drugs directly into my heart in order to bring it back up.  I don't remember much about going into surgery, but I do remember looking down from a place up by the ceiling and seeing a person dressed in light blue running or walking with a box on a mall table with wheels, which I found out afterwards, by actually seeing it, that it was a defibrillator.  Shortly thereafter, I saw my family waiting in the intensive care waiting room, which I can describe in detail, including a screen separating this waiting room from the intensive care unit.  I was on life support for twelve hours and during this time I saw, as if it were deep within a dome or cupola, a white light tinged with blue that radiated rays of energy.


Later I remember a type of cottage where I saw many children dressed in white robes, all together, as in a school.  There I was greeted by a being dressed in immaculate white who looked a lot like my father who had died several years before my surgery.


At 8:00 the next morning, I opened my eyes and sat up in my bed with forty-two stitches.  This worried my doctors who hadn't yet made a prognosis.


As a result of this experience, I am immensely more spiritual and religious. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    11/30/2002: 13/11/2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-related     My experience happened during surgery but the doctors didn't want to tell me what happened.  I only know that I was very sick.  :Durante una Cirugía, pero no me quisieron explicar lo que me pasó. Solo se que estuve muy mal.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was asleep for twenty-four hours during the surgery.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was like a dome with a circle in the center that radiated light.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I think it was my father who had died two years before.  He is the only one in my immediate family who has died.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was white, very white but not blinding or dazzling.   Light radiated from the dome like energy but not harmful.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A beautiful field, very green, and some sort of cottage that was very warm and inviting.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Much peace and love and tranquility.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My experience has caused me to live a profoundly spiritual and religious life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Roman Catholic:Católico Apostólico Romano

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic:Católico Apostólico Romano

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became very religious.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing my father.  The worst was seeing the suffering of my family.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The priests I have told this to have all supported me.  The few lay persons I have told were very touched by my story.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would like to be able to tell more, to remember more and better relate what happened but I was told that they gave me an 'amnesia drug' and I can't remember more.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guillermo_nde.html