{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guillem_bc_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Guillem BC Probable NDE 4933","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guillem BC Probable NDE 4933  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Guillem BC Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2533 Guillem BC Probable NDE 4933  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Felt a great peace, a feeling of happiness and peace as I had never felt. I was happy; suddenly I started rising, first slowly, and then rapidly. At the end of the tunnel had a beautiful white light with a blue and white bicolor ring that was spinning like a roulette but slowly, the light-aired emotional warmth, wisdom. When I was very close to the light the light was understood that God and felt a force that would stop me and would not let me into the light. Then I contact the light told me: 'Not yet.' Then I started back down knowing that he returned to the living world. The light told me without words that I was still on a mission on earth, but without saying what it was. As he descended, he was proud of myself at once I knew he would never feel a sensation so pleasant in my life. I had no fear of death, almost knew it was very pleasant, although suicide was not a legitimate way to reach that state. I felt enlightened, caring, trained, even years later, mainly guided in making decisions and confident in the future. God touched me gently and with love. My soul, my mind, my being was enlightened and opened to the sensitivity, wisdom and knowledge.

It was one of the best experiences of my life so far. I do not remember actually landing the descent; just my memories of that experience are completed at this point.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When the light told me: 'Not yet.'

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the light told me, 'Not yet.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know if everything was going too slow or too fast, if everything was great or not, but remember that space-time wonder.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience there was mostly dark and a great light. After the experience I am convinced verse more clearly, with more vivid colors, details and textures are more complex.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    After the experience I hear better, I have more dynamic range, I can hear distant sounds very slight that my friends cannot, I can clearly separate the different sources of the sounds I hear, I can almost instantly locate the source of an unexpected sound. I feel like after my accident I had the eyes and ears of a tiger while hunting.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I rose through black space into a tunnel that radiated light and had a ring entry bicolor white and blue rotating.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very powerful white light that brought warmth to the soul.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria, safety, satisfaction, fun, joy, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have known the power of God and the ridiculousness of religion structured.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I believe in existence of the human soul, the afterlife, heaven and reincarnation. I believe (I have lived) in God. But in a natural god, a god (by definition) does not need any kind of religion, or structure or ritual to communicate with living beings or souls.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have known the power of God and the ridiculousness of religion structured.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have a mission.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Have more and better relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I prefer not to comment.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Joy, mission, God, afterlife.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told all my family, my friends, and girlfriends. I think everyone believed me.  I even told a friend who had a head injury shortly after me.  When they had recovered, we were listening to a song by The Prodigy and I remember we did the ring with light blue and white rotating and that they had not discussed the issue earlier. He had seen the same thing and we remember what happened to us each separately with the music.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was a teenager, could have seen some documentary on TV, I guess.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I lived like a very lucky person; I know that the experience was real, absolutely real. It was as if a hot iron taxed love and wisdom in my soul, the best tattoo you can have.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guillem_bc_probable_nde.html