{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1guan_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Guan W Probable NDE 2393","mylang":"de"}
          	        Guan W Probable NDE 2393  		  		  		  		  		        		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Guan W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						721  Guan W Probable NDE  2393  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;                        				  

  				It was about ten years old when I had the first NDE. I was sleeping and felt myself go into another world; I like to call it the 'Second Origin Space'. It was a very black darkness (it contrasted strongly with the castle in my other NDE). I think the appropriate words to describe it would be like the 'windmill' and 'black hole' visual effect atmosphere in the software 'Windows Media Player'.

There were extreme disordered noises, images and feelings. I only say it was chaos. Then I shouted loudly, 'Let me go! Let me go!!' (After the event, my mother told me.) It was fearful terror. My parents were impressed by my emotion and were scared. I am sure it was a near-death experience. At that moment, I had a dyspnea and was nearly asphyxiated to death. I had a similar situation in subsequent years.

When I was twenty years old, I had a dyspnea again. I saw a very bright light and reviewed my life from beginning to end all at once. Time as I had known it came to a halt. Everything was uttermost beautiful, profound. They were beyond description.

Sometimes I could not move when I was in the ecstasy and found some strange things. For example, I found the things that were not in my room or still things were alive, I had acousma and heteroptics in daytime, I fly very fast to sky from the earth by an aircraft and I felt really the wind. The still things communicated with me and we didn't use any language. I found that we had common ground. The inner of us are chemical material. We all have souls and white light - very bright light, very beautiful. I felt very lost when I woke up. It seemed as if somebody had a lot of money in his dream and he found he had two empty hands when he woke up.

Here I emphasize that the different between these feelings with dreams is the sense of reality. Unlike the dim sense in a dream, I had a strong sense of reality. I saw a big, brilliant, golden and colorful castle as if it was in a fable. How beautiful it was. Everybody should feel this experience so that there are few fights in this world.

These experiences are really beyond description. It seems like that somebody falls in love and doesn't know how to express the sweet sense. Before that time, I didn't know that people could experience the great sense. After that time, I know many things easily as if I have a doctor degree and study in primary school. I am sorry I can't express the meanings well.

Give Thanks to the LORD who richly blessed me. After that time I often repent and think God's favor. Death isn't fearful. The anxieties about future uncertainties are fearful in fact. People should prepare for the death. A famous proverb says, 'The meanings of life are what we have done and experienced.' Love and knowing the truth are the most important.

God is light. God is love.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1994年到1995年的某一天  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         睡觉  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Special Knowledge  During my sleeping I had a dyspnea and was nearly asphyxiated.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My own personal opinion is that it is the difference of my attention. Although I am not sure that there is another world. I think there is another world for the moment. When we are in this world, we pay attention to this world, and when we are in another world we pay attention to that world. If I must give a time when I had highest level of consciousness and alertness I should to say it was at the moment when I viewed my life.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was as if there was timeless. I had no sense about space and time. My all life was viewed for an instant.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Deeper in the life-viewing.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sense of hearing was more alert.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     They seemed like two horizontal endless bounding walls. One was in upper and another was underlying.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Maybe I had a hallucination. Because I felt the reading lamp and the curtain were the same as me. They connected with me. I felt they were alive and saw the reading lamp urinate! Everything was alive.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White light, very bright, beyond description.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     浩瀚，辉煌的城堡，天堂的感觉，灿烂无比，仙境之感  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror (in the darkness), reality, wonderful.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    没有   Conservative/fundamentalist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was a materialism atheist. After that time, I was converted to a Christian. Now I believe that God is light and love. God is who God is. God is the ultimate power of the universe.  

What is your religion now?       基督教     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was a materialism atheist. After that time, I was converted to a Christian. Now I believe that God is light and love. God is who God is. God is the ultimate power of the universe.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Everything is included in light.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was quite different in outlook. I became more generous, open-minded, and profound. It gave me positive effect in my relationship with other people.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For example, my feeling, emotion, status and matters are difficult to describe clearly.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Dark tunnel was useful to me. Life-reviewing and the castle gave me very beautiful spirit experience that I had never imagined. My outlook on life and worth were changed indeed by them.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   All my NDEs are related to my sleeping at night or in daytime.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think it's better to communicate face to face.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1guan_w_probable_nde.html