{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1grzegorz_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Grzegorz K NDE 1089","mylang":"de"}
          	        Grzegorz K NDE 1089  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Grzegorz K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1267 Grzegorz K NDE 1089  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can't remember the accident itself. I regained my consciousness when I was back in my apartment (that's what I thought). The only difference was that there were cases and cupboards with drugs and medicines everywhere. After some time, a woman appeared. I can't remember if we talked. At one point, a light door appeared in the wall and the woman asked me to come with her through it. We were to be back soon. I agreed because I trusted her. We went through the door. On the other side, she was no longer there. Everything looked like an underground factory (I cannot describe that place, but I guess a factory is what it felt like). 

There were many people there. They were running naked in all directions. I just sat and observed them. The couldn't see me or they just didn't pay attention to my presence. Some time passed and I wanted to find the exit. I wasted a lot of time and didn't find anything. I was getting upset, angry, and lost consciousness. When I regained it, I was still In that factory, but there were no people this time, just the women that took me there. She said I would stay there (I think the communication was telepathic, we didn't talk in the usual way). I felt deceived. She had said we were going to come back. She asked me what I didn't like about the place. I didn't answer, but I felt she understood my situation. All the people that I would leave on earth came to my mind instantly. I was very sad, for the first time in my life, the feeling of sadness was so strong. I then felt sucked into this world and started to regain consciousness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentIllness    Clinical death   The accident resulted in hematoma of the brain. I was near death for a few days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt as if my consciousness followed me wherever I looked and then went wherever it wanted.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware who I am, I paid attention to details.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Just like I described above, it was a new place, new space.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I came through a door made of light. It appeared in the middle of a wall in my apartment.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A woman who took care of me and other people.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   A light door I described above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     'An underground factory' I described above.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First curiosity, later - fear.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was reminded of all the people I would not see any more if I stayed there.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I went through this light door and came back through the same door. When I could not find the exit, I felt I was trapped/limited by this alien space. It was not a physical boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I'm not sure if it was my decision.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   ateista

What is your religion now?       Liberal   buddysta, praktykujący w linii buddyzmu tybetańskiego Karma Kagyu

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started looking for explanations and came across Buddhist teachings about death. They were the only teachings that sound sensible and explain my experience. Later I started studying more Buddhism and decided this outlook fits me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   All the feelings are difficult to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part, the woman's care of me. Worst part was when I couldn't get out of there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People's reactions were not out of the way.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1grzegorz_k_nde.html