{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gregory_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Gregory W NDE 5036","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gregory W NDE 5036  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gregory W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2614 Gregory W NDE 5036  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was living with my parents at the time this experience took place. I was in my bedroom sleeping and slipped into a diabetic insulin reaction. I did not wake up when these occurred and would many times come out of my sleep with my mom and/or dad hovering over me, calling my name. I'd have these pounding headaches and it would take several hours for me to feel normal again.

I find it interesting with this particular reaction; I had no headache or long recovery. After the experience I felt normal or as I had just woken out of a deep sleep. Here's what happened.

I was asleep and fell into an insulin reaction. I don't remember the exact time but do know that it was toward early morning probably around 4:00 am. I'd had several incidents similar to this and had shared these with my mother.  On this night, it suddenly felt as if there were a great warmth around me and then a great burst of light. The light appeared to be not like the sunlight but a very bright, white light. It was pure and had no darkness in the light. I didn't seen any being though at this point.

I began to move and noted that I was moving under my own control. I was sucked up into a tunnel and towards a brighter light. Moving through the tunnel did not take long, there was no pain and when I reached the end, I was propelled to a place that I cannot describe in words.

I had been brought up in a religious environment and knew something about these things, but was not prepared for what I saw. I remember looking down to see I had feet, as it seemed that I was floating. When I looked, I saw I had feet and then concluded that something really weird was happening to me. Again there was no pain, I had no feeling of any type but was able to think clearly.

I came to a place that had a green field of grass and as I looked into the distance (not too far but a bit) I saw the most beautiful sight. On a slight incline there was a city with walls so high I could hardly look over to see any sky at the top of the wall.

I was moving slowly towards the city not at a fast pace but steadily and was able to get a good look at the walls. I noticed that there were three gates.  Then I notice that I could look right through the walls and that there were gates on all four walls. The spacing between the gates was perfect and then I noticed the foundation and the construction of the wall.

I'm red/green colorblind and am visually impaired.  Yet, I saw twelve different colors that made up the wall. The colors where not blended but were clearly defined and each was the same height as the next. I also noted that the content or the making of the walls was solid stone and then realized that it was pure stone. (It took me a bit to figure out what this was. I didn't realize this until after the experience, but have concluded that the stone was so pure it was like glass!)

I looked into the city and saw streets of solid gold. I then noticed beings and at that point felt a presence at the back of me. I was not afraid but could not move. I simply stood there and waited. The being approached me and I realized it was a celestial being. I was overpowered with great adoration, respect and thankfulness. I was not prepared for what I was going to be told.

I never saw this being, but knew who it was. I felt a touch on my shoulder and then a voice. 'I need to send you back, your work is not done on earth yet,' the voice said. It's amazing to me. I was not disappointed nor did I have any resentment. I simply said, 'I'll go.'

The voice then told me more. I cannot print that here but can tell this:

There is a time coming very soon, in which I will be required to follow through with a task that will help with the preparing of the end of time. I don't know that time or day, but have very specific direction on what must be done.

I then left the city and within a short time was back in my body. I awoke out of the reaction and as I stated above had no aftershock at all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct. of 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    low blood sugar  Other: May have been a clinical death but was not verified by a medical caregiver

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was all the same.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was all the same.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time does not exist where I was.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see normally or without impairment.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I came to a place that had a green field of grass and as I looked into the distance (not too far but a bit) I saw the most beautifull sight.  On a slight incline there was a city with walls so high I could hardly look over to see any sky at the top of the wall.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was completely at rest.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This I cannot share at this time. I was told not to say anything until I have been directed to do so.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   was at a critical decision point with my faith in God

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The church I belonged to at the time of my NDE taught on things that do not align with the teaching of God's Word. I left this church and do not belong to any denomination at this time.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Holdeman, Mennonite'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The church I belonged to at the time of my NDE taught on things that do not align with the teaching of God's Word. I left this church and do not belong to any denomination at this time.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This is hard to describe, it seemed as if I had the ability to know things that could not be known on earth. Also there was a sense of knowing or being able to look into the future as if there were no boundary of time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not angry at God. I am still a mortal persona and still make mistakes and fail; however I now have the ability to look beyond immediate problems and can adjust to life's ongoing troubles as they arise from time to time.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are certain points in the experience that are easy to express and then there are points that I remember clearly but have no way to describe the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to know the spiritual wellbeing of people I meet. This does not mean I can determine their past or future but can know where they stand in the light of God at the time I meet them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part that is the highlight of the entire event was when the being (Jesus) came out of the city and spoke to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first spoke to my mother about this experience. I was very angry at first and did not share it though for three days, I then asked her why she had treated me and made me come back. Later I came to terms with this and understood that she was not in control of my coming back.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I did, but doubted that they were true.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never doubted whether this was just a dream or a vision. I am sure, very sure that I left my body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has been eighteen years since my NDE and I remember every detail vividly as if it happened right now. I am certain of why I was privileged to experience such an encounter and will do everything I am able to do to go back to that beautiful place!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have spoken with people who do not believe in these out-of-body experiences. It is true there are many who imagine and falsify these type of experiences. The truth is, if one has had an experience and it is real there is a positive way to verify the truth of an experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gregory_w_nde.html