{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gregory_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Gregory K NDE 9418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gregory K NDE 9418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gregory K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5051 Gregory K NDE 9418  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was asked to share my Near Death Experience and need to disclose a Trigger Warning.  There's a good message at the end as well but this is a bit of a long read...  Here’s my death experience, which led to nightmares that would haunt me for the next 24 years.  This search has led me to become an Unconscious Mind Coach & Mental Health Hypnotherapist today.

  I was an Australian Navy Clearance Diver (SEAL Team equivalent) working with the Australian Special Air Service Regiment (SAS).  I drowned in the Antarctic Ocean at 2am in 17 meter seas.

  After coming back, I suffered Hypothermia as my body was between 33 - 34 degrees Celsius.   

The next day, about 6 hrs later, I jumped onto a Sea King helicopter and continued our mission.  We were boarding illegal vessels in Antarctic waters.  It was almost as if nothing happened, because that’s how we were trained.

  It wasn’t until around 12 years later that I started getting struck down with uncontrollable Panic Attacks.  Small things Triggered my mind, so my body began going through the same intense panic that occurred 12 years ago.  I experienced the moment of no return in the blackness of the freezing Antarctic waters. Here’s my version of events which were later substantiated in Navy Officer reports.   

  It was actually so cold that when the waves struck the hull of the ship, the water instantly froze. It looked like it was snowing upwards as the frosted water smashed over the top of the Navy Frigate.  The time was approximately 2am in the morning and it was pitch black.  The seas I am told, were around 17 meters high.  They were higher than the Frigate itself and you could see the ship vanish behind the waves.  The Navy Frigate was like a cork bobbing around in the unforgiving ocean.  On my night to remember, we were 'Fast Roping' off the Bridge Deck of an Australian Frigate into a Rigid Inflatable Boat (RIB) that was being towed alongside the Frigate after being lowed into the water.

  The 'Fast Rope' is a thick rope, approximately 10cm thick and it actually guides you very quickly out of a helicopter or into a boat being towed alongside a ship.  This way we didn't have to climb down a ladder and it is a much faster way to load soldiers.  However, due to the rope being wet and frosted with the cold, we were unable to actually stop midway down.  So we just fell controllably downwards, if that makes sense.

  The first load of our military assault group had all plunged down the rope into the first RIB, and had unhooked the shackle at the front of the boat which was towing them alongside the Frigate.  They then proceeded to the rear of the ship and followed behind until the second RIB had been loaded. We were all going to the illegal vessel under the cover of darkness and the massive sea swell.  As luck would have it, I was actually the first Assault Team Member to plummet down the fast rope into the second inflatable boat being towed alongside the Frigate.  I looked down the side of the ship from the Bridge Deck and saw that approximately 30ft below, the boat had come alongside.  The Bowman, the fellow at the front was raising his thumb to signal that he had hooked up the shackle to the rope and was now being towed alongside the Frigate.  At that moment, I climbed over the rails, grabbed the thick 'Fast Rope' and plummeted down it towards the Inflatable Boat alongside.

  It’s also important to note that I was wearing a full thermal snow suit, snow boots, a backpack containing 3 days rations; a sledge hammer to beat in locked doors on any illegal vessel to gain entry; plus firearms, weapons and ammunition as needed should we be met with resistance onboard the vessel we were about to board.

  I was halfway down the rope when a huge wave crashes against the hull of the Navy Frigate.  The inflatable boat was pushed away from the hull and the shackle at the front of the RIB snapped, causing the RIB to slip backwards and outwards from the Frigate’s hull.  I slid into the Antarctic Ocean, hanging on to the thick rope as the Frigate is going about 10 knots (10 miles per hour).  I look over my left shoulder and see that the driver of the RIB is now driving it alongside the ship, keeping up with it just so the bow (Front) of the RIB is about an arm's length from me as I’m being bashed against the hull of the ship and being dragged through the sea swell.  In short, I was being towed alongside the ship at about 10knots and hanging onto the rope in freezing conditions with all my equipment on.  The Bowman was screaming at me to grab a hold of the thin ropes on the top of the RIB, so I reached out and grabbed a hold of the thin ropes around the inflatable.  This meant I was dragging under the RIB at the same speed of about 10knts.

  The Bowman was yelling at me to not let go, but I couldn't hang on.  I was sucked under the water.  The water was so cold that when my head went under, I gasped and ended up inhaling a lot of water which froze my throat.  I popped up to the surface as I was being sucked into the hull of the Frigate.  I looked up and saw other military personnel running along the deck of the ship yelling out, 'Man Overboard, Man Overboard.'  I kept pushing myself out from the hull of the ship as my main concern was being sucked under the ship.  The wake of the ship kept sucking me in to the side of the hull.  I looked down the length of the ship and saw the foaming fury of the waves being made by the propellers of the ship.  A massive panic came over me, as I thought I was going to be chopped up by the huge propellers that rotated in towards the center of the ship as it pushed through the water.  When the foaming waves at the stern (back) of the ship reached me, I got sucked under the ship.  This sent me to the middle of the hull where I kicked and screamed in absolute, uncontrollable panic.  I felt my right boot connect with the hard hull of the ship, so I pushed out with all my strength and luckily I popped out the back of the surging waves and saw the ship sailing away in the darkness.  I recall absolute relief as I watched the ship sail away as I hadn’t been chopped up by the propellers.

  It was then that I heard the first inflatable boat's crew yelling that they could see me in the darkness. My snow suit was bright orange. They were yelling that they were coming to pick me up.   I looked around and saw the boat surfing down a wave, totally out of control and towards me.  The boat ran straight over me, smashing into my head and forcing me under the water.  Again, I panicked and thrust my arms and legs as hard as I could towards the surface and began treading water in the freezing Ocean.  When I got to the surface, I then heard the crew of the second inflatable boat yelling out to me that they would grab me and pick me up.  I looked around in the darkness and saw them.  The same as the first boat, they were surfing uncontrollably down the huge waves and they also ran over me, strucking my head and arms.  This forced me under the water again where I was really starting to struggle to get back up to the surface.  

  I continued thrashing around to get back up to the surface of the water. BUT by now, the cold water, the weight of my snow suit and my weighted backpack, was making it harder and harder to get back up to the surface.  My body was beginning to go into shock as my blood started concentrating on my organs instead of pushing it out to my arms and legs.  I was now drifting downwards into the black ocean which felt as if it was freezing my eye balls and my throat as I gulped down more and more water into my lungs.  The panic was something that is hard to describe.  My body went into a severe fight mode to stay alive.  I kept my eyes open as I continued sinking as I stared into the blackness.

  I also kept inhaling the freezing water and remembered everything slowly turning from extreme cold to becoming really warm inside me. It was as if the blackness began covering me like a warm blanket.  I still remember the total calmness that came over me as I kept inhaling the blackness all around, which now also began to feel as it was filling me up from the inside.  I actually felt as I was drifting off into a lovely deep sleep.  It was as if a thick, black liquid began to cover my eyes and was slowly making its way around the outside of my body and the inside of my brain.  I began feeling like I was actually flying in the blackness, with a calmness and peacefulness becoming my entire existence.  I began the transition from my body’s physical mass into nothingness.  But, there was also an amazing 'Home-like Welcoming Feeling' of being loved.  I felt surrounded by people who loved me and that I also loved, but they were people I actually didn’t know in this life.

  What happened next was nothing short of incredible!

  The first RIB’s crew had seen me go under, so maneuvered the boat over me in the massive sea swell.  The crew then formed a human chain of three personnel into the water and one of the crew thrashed around in the blackness of the ocean and miraculously grabbed my right arm as I was drifting down into the blackness.  They then pulled me back in to the boat and on to the deck (floor) where I came back to consciousness and began coughing up all the water I had inhaled and swallowed.

  It was as if time had stopped over the last 10 minutes and everything felt as it was going normal.  It was as if what I’d gone through didn’t even happen.  I actually felt an incredible clarity of everything around me.  It was as if the black sky separated from the black water and all the colors seemed in the highest definition.

  It’s very important for a person who has been subjected to severe cold to stay still so the warmth their body generates by moving their limbs is kept around their vital organs however there I am standing up yelling at everyone 'Come on let’s go and get this illegal boat.'  The call came back from the Navy Frigate to get me back on board to see if I had been injured in the event. I was put back on my original RIB and taken back on board the Frigate.  I was dressed up in my snow suit, boots, backpack etc. in the wardroom while military nurses and doctors undressed me to get the cold, wet clothes off.  I could feel the mood in the room was very tense as everyone was worried that I was about to go into shock from hypothermia.  My body temperature was bordering on death at around 33 to 34 degrees Celsius.  I blacked out and collapsed, so I was placed on my back on the carpeted floor with a plastic blanket put over me. A machine began pumping warm air into the blanket to slowly allow my blood to be distributed from around my organs to my extremities without shocking my organs.

  I must have transitioned again from my body into the other side (or maybe it was in between both sides).  I vividly remember being surrounded by the blackness again, with so much love around me and inside of me.  I remember being really confused at this time because all I could hear was the softest, beautiful guiding-voice coming from outside of the blackness.  It’s strange to try and remember the feeling but it was like I was given a soft push through the darkness towards the beautiful voice which was telling me everything would be OK.  I still remember that soothing loving voice saying, 'Come to me darling, it’s ok, come to me over here.' The voice kept saying the same thing over and over for what I thought may have been about 15 to 20 times.  I began feeling a soft, warm hand holding mine with another warm hand stroking the top on my hand as I slowly began drifting back into self-consciousness.  The lovely voice from the blackness in my mind then sort of transported into reality.  A female officer who was sitting next to me on the floor.  was saying, 'It’s all ok now.  Come here and wake up now. It’s time to wake up.'  My vital signs had started getting stronger and after what seemed many hours had gotten back to normal.  Six hours later, we were boarding another vessel as if nothing had happened.

  As I mentioned before, about 12 years later, I had begun to experience panic attacks whenever I found myself in a place that I could not see an exit, such as car parks, shopping centers, and  etc.  This then led to Anxiety, Depression, PTSD Triggering attacks, Self-Doubt, and Self-Sabotage until I found Hypnotherapy and Unconscious healing that allowed me to go back to the moments this all happened and coach myself through it.  It worked so well, I created my own Mental Health business, so now I spend every day assisting people all over the world overcome their unconscious emotions that they had attached to negative events in their past.  What I’ve learnt through all of this is that no matter how big or how small we think our past traumas are, at the time we experienced them, they were so powerful to the person going through them, that they can affect for many years after the event.

  So stay strong and believe there is a way that you can let go of those debilitating emotions from your past that are limiting your Happiness today.

  Warm Regards and Love. 

  Greg Keily  

  http://www.howsyourheadspace.com.au/
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 late 1990's  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident  Drowning  Hypothermia  Life threatening event, but not clinical death     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It's all explained in the story with voices and feelings of touch.  I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was fighting to stay alive so my conscious focus on what I was doing was at its maximum. My Unconscious acted like the experience went on for many years.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately and approximately 7 minutes before the NDE  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time stopped as if the event took years to happen. When I came back into consciousness the first time everything was very vivid and sped up and then the second time of slipping into unconsciousness, time didn't really exist. It was as if I had gone to outer space for 100 years and returned back to the same time and place on earth when I regained consciousness  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed much larger and denser. Even my emotions were so much more evident. I have been involved in many different major incidents after that where the entire world slowed down to a crawl and I was able to take in everything around me however, during that first incident, at the time, I was not aware of everything slowing down but definitely more heightened in what I saw and what I felt  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not remember hearing anything except the voices of people in my ear communications and then shouting at me as they attempted to rescue me. No other sound was evident during the event which lasted around 10 minutes  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw so many at the time but not that I knew in my life. It seemed there was a long line who were encouraging me in some way but it was neither to follow them or to go back. As my story describes I was ripped from the water as I was drowning and I came out of the darkness into reality and then as I collapsed during my second unconscious experience, I felt their presence but heard voices beyond the darkness and also before the darkness. It was like I was suspended but had absolutely No control of the direction I was going  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   different colors, blues, yellows and intense blackness  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     The darkness with voices as mentioned in question 21  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and extensive panic. The action to fight was overwhelming  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     Each is on their own path. Mine had to be to have children and to help as many people as I could. I went through sever mental health challenges which led me down the path of a healer which I do now. When I overlook everything now it all makes sense and happened for the right reasons. Back then though I was fairly naive about the reasons and the big picture.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my wil.  I sort of had no control and just went where the strongest pull was. I had messages coming in from both sides and both were very loving. I don't think I've ever felt as helpless and powerless in life as I was at that time. It was if I was in a deep flowing river of darkness and warmth and just went where ever I was going. I also had No interest in trying to take control. To be honest, it was if I hadn't existed on earth at all but then I really knew deep down inside that I had and I could probably have listed every single waking moment when I was alive. Very strange just thinking about it now. As I guide others through different states of consciousness as my job now I find it easy to connect on that higher level and dissect the event much closer with a feeling of Happiness  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   No Religious Affiliations  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     as previously mentioned multiple times  

  What is your religion now?       No comment.   Open to all as aware of different states of consciousness exist as per Quantum Theory during and after life  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had No idea of bigger pictures or entities or what I felt rather than what I saw or heard. It was if I was living in a state on 1 dimensional consciousness prior to the event and following events I encountered afterwards  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Each of us has a purpose and a reason why we have gone through what we have in our lives. Many will never learn however many will. That said, when we cross over to the Quantum realm I experienced the feeling that we all connect with what we have learnt  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It's already explained in my story  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I felt sort of enriched and that this life had complemented everything else I was before but that everything and everyone also felt the same as me. Like whatever I had experienced in this life and others, everything else knew and felt the same experiences. So I find it hard to think of me at that moment being a 1 thing instead of being connected and feeling of everything else. Sounds weird but as I'm writing this, it all makes sense. It was as if I also knew everything that everyone and everything else had experienced.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes I answered this in the previous question 34  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes but not as a one individual being. More of an everything and everyone feeling. It is as if I felt that everything is part of that specific power and only love and Happiness existed. I did also feel as if time did not exist inside or outside of this power. There seemed to be No hierarchy, just equal everything but equal in absolutely everything. Like every rock, every living being, every piece of atmosphere, every piece of light and every piece of dark. It's like I could be a part of everything since the beginning of existence and to the end of which there seemed No end. There just didn't seem any way of time being created  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not at the time but it grew on me to be where I am now. I had No idea I was coming along this path but that event had to happen to change my direction considerably. Assisting people now with their unconscious, many I see have the same experience. It's as if they go along the wrong path for so long until BOOM, something huge happens to change their paths. That said though, some never experience the big BOOM to change paths and that's OK, as we are all here for different reasons. But we will all feel what each other has been through and rejoice in what was learned.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     So much love that I couldn't describe it. I also had a line of entities that seemed like shadows who were connected with me in a very intense state. I felt actual excitement from them as I was nearing where ever it was they were at. There seemed so many of them but from other places, not in this life. It was more a feeling of being welcomed Home.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The emotions, focus and attention we give things like stress, outside world problems and other people's opinions are really meaningless. I get an overwhelming feeling that we are getting lost amongst everything outside of us instead of what we are here to experience within ourselves that we can take back to where we originated from. It's like people are now only focusing on what they can see, hear, touch instead of what they can feel. We seem really lost  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Like I said before, it was as if everything was connected however, there was sort of a Happiness about everything as if difficulties were celebrated, enjoyed and learnt from  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     As mentioned previously, Overwhelming love beyond but I also felt huge love back here. I heard vices and pulling power from both  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Love everyone. If they are ass holes, I appreciate that they are on their own path, wish them well and sweep them away  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I had to keep going back and adding details as I worked through the experience. Years later, I now assist people access their higher states of consciousness so I can close my eyes and go back to the exact moment, relive it and understand there was so many more things happening around me than I was aware of during the event  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to connect with my Higher Self and actually feel everything around me. I can also be speaking with someone and connect with their Higher Self and feel their pain, loss, Happiness etc.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voices I heard on both sides were so full of love. I now tell everyone I meet or even don't meet that I Love Them. It comes with mixed reactions LOL  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It has been shared multiple times of which the majority of it was through psychics or during a drunken party story until I began healing from the event through unconscious connection training. Once I was able to remove the emotions around the event, I could access everything I had experienced in the unconscious state and was able to "feel" a lot more happening around me than just my conscious recollection.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was during a military operation so it's all my conscious world became for 24hrs. Then we went on and did other operations so it fell into the background as was put down to a non-important event. It was pushed aside as I had to focus on other tasks  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Many major events as a police officer after my military career. Everything slowed down to a crawl and I was able to recall everything in high detail of the events, the people in them, what was said, what was done.               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gregory_k_nde.html