{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gregory_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Gregory C NDE 5068","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gregory C NDE 5068  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gregory C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2624 Gregory C NDE 5068  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am playing basketball with Jim an emergency doctor at a local hospital. There just happened to be ten of us that late morning in June on the court, during the first game I was guarding Jim and not doing so well when all of a sudden I felt a deep dull pain high on my right chest. It wasn't so painful that I needed to stop playing but it was unusual in the sense that it felt odd and very deep within me. I told Jim about the pain after the first game and Jim told me it sounded like a heart attack.

'I thought a heart attack was always on the left side where the heart is?'

'No. It can be on either side. Are you ready to play another game?'

'Sure.'

Jim and I played another full court game and the team I was on lost again and during the game I noticed that the pain moved from the right upper chest to the left upper chest, again I asked Jim his opinion about the pain I was suffering.

'Yea, it sounds like a heart attack, it can be on either side of your chest. Let's get another game going before someone comes and we have to shoot to play.'

I thought that Jim either didn't believe that I was feeling the pain or he was just joking with me. I stepped out on the court to play the third straight game and began guarding Jim. During the game I had the ball on the wing and gave Jim a head fake as though I was going up, he bought the fake and left his feet and as I dribbled around Jim to shoot a simple banker from five feet away. My right arm went numb and tingling, I didn't even hit the glass or the bottom of the net, again my team lost and I walked off the court dizzy and feeling very odd. Jim slapped me on the back and told me, let's hit it again. I told Jim 'I think I'm having a heart attack.' I walked out of the gym and the manager Mike whose office is to the right of the basketball court door took one look at me and said.

'Greg! You look ashen gray; I need to call an ambulance.'

'Let's not panic, can we just walk across the street to the medical center and check my EKG?'

'Greg, you look half dead, I'm not kidding let me call 911.'

'I don't want to sound an alarm if it's just exhaustion I just played three full court games of basketball and I'm tired.'

'Ok, let get over there.'

Mike and I crossed the street and walked in to the medical facility and found that nobody was there, they were all out for lunch, Mike said.

'I'm going to call 911.'

'Mike, please call my wife first and tell her that I'm suffering from indigestion and for her to pick up my clothes at the Big C. and then have her sign me in at Mount Diablo Hospital and I will met her there.'

'Ok,' Mike called Ann at work and told her what I wanted him to tell her so she wouldn't get worried.'

Mike called 911 and the Fire Department arrived within a few minutes and brought in an electrocardiograph machine while I was lying on the floor of the medical facility. They hooked me up and within a few minutes told me, I was having a heart attack. An ambulance arrived a few minutes later, placed me in their vehicle, and headed towards the hospital less than a mile away. My condition wasn't as bad as that of the other patient in the ambulance which pulled up next to mine at a stop sign; the emergency medical technicians agreed to allow the other patient to pull in front of my ambulance while we waited in the parking lot allowing the other ambulance to unload the other patient. My poor wife was waiting in the emergency room and she could see the back door of the ambulance open up and watched as they were using the paddles to shock the patient in order to restart his heart. They gave up, flipped the sheet over his head, and pushed his lifeless body through the door. Ann of course thought the patient was me.  Within a few moments later, as they pushed the gurney directly past Ann, all of a sudden the left hand of the deceased patient was seen sporting a large diamond ring.

Sadden by the unknown patient Ann was glad to see that the next ambulance pulled up with me inside sitting up in my gurney and being lowered to the street level and then being rolled in to the emergency room. Ann followed me in to the emergency room where I was visited by a doctor who I knew from the Club. The doctor introduced himself to me and asked how I was doing? I told him the symptoms that I had and he informed me that I had a heart attack and that I was being given TPC, a blood thinning medicine that unclogs blockages, and that I had nothing to worry about.

I was in good hands.  They would monitor me for the next four days, allowing my body to relax and become less stressed before conducting an angiogram.  An angiogram is a procedure of placing a long catheter in my groin and running it up in to my heart and then injecting a fluid that shows any blockage and to what extent the damage was.  If the blockage was still a danger to me they would place a small balloon like device on the end of a wire which would pierce the blockage and then inflated causing the plax to be pushed to the sides of the artery walls allowing blood to flow again.

A few years later, they would begin using stents, which would keep the plax from reforming in the arteries. The doctor's words were reassuring to both Ann and me; he hadn't left the room for more than a few minutes while I was talking to Ann about how lucky we were buying medical insurance three days before this event.

All of a sudden, I felt this feeling deep in my stomach that moved slowly upwards towards my heart, it wasn't anything I needed to fear, it was quite the opposite. I was overwhelmed with a sense of spiritual calm and universal knowledge. I knew that I needed to say goodbye to Ann in a way that she could clearly understand.

'Honey, I going to check out now, I love you very much, but I want you to know that I'm going home, don't cry, everything will be okay. I love you.'

I closed my eyes and placed my head back on the pillow and felt this incredible warmth covering my entire body. Then I felt as though every pore in my entire body exploded with love. It was though all the creatures on earth as well as in the universe stopped momentarily and looked at me and smiled and said, 'We love you.' I opened my eyes and there was Ann sitting at the foot of my bed looking at me. Then a blond nurse came in the room and tripped over Ann's feet trying to get to the other side of my bed, the nurse raised her left hand, which sported a watch with a brown strap and hit me in the chest, which caused me to reenter my body.

Not pleased I looked at the nurse leaving in a hurry and asked, 'What was that for?'

The nurse didn't respond to me and disappeared out of sight, I looked back towards Ann and she looked shocked.

'Honey, it's okay, I love you so very much, I'm going home, and everything will be fine.' Within a nanosecond I could review the future and I knew she would be fine without me.

With that, as before, I placed my head on the pillow.  I felt this incredible warmth and then the explosion of love and happiness as never felt before, as I opened my eyes I saw a brunette nurse with shoulder length hair enter the room and take Ann by the shoulder and told her, 'Mrs. C you will need go now.' With that the nurse walked Ann out the room and took her to a lounge of sorts where she was left.'

I saw the blond come back in to my room with a taller brunette nurse and two doctors, my doctor and an Asian doctor with black hair, another nurse entered the room a few moments later while I went from a wide-angle view to looking directly down on all those in the small room.

I first felt as though I was still a mortal when I asked the Chinese doctor why he hadn't plugged the bald spot on top of his head considering all the money he makes. I didn't get a laugh from anyone and realized then they couldn't hear me. I then seemed to vacillate back and forth from a mortal to a higher spiritual entity. I also realized they couldn't hear me, but I could not only hear them but I could hear their thoughts as well. I was truly happy; I have never felt so much love in my life. Ann and I are soul mates and I couldn't have been happier in my life without her. I fell in love with her the moment I set eyes on her. I can honestly say that from the moment I met Ann, she was the closest thing to heaven on earth. The love I have had for her was eternal, and yet to compare human love with the type of love you experience when you pass on, there are no comparisons. I chose to die that day; I have never felt love as intense as I did those moments when I left my body. As I looked down on those beneath me working hard to bring me back, I realized that life or death is in our hands.  It's our choice to stay or leave.  It is a major sacrifice to stay, As I looked down on the five people in the room I felt sorry for them that they were stressed attempting to save me when I didn't want to be saved, I wanted them to know that there is no failure on their part whether or not I live or die.

I observed another spirit entering the room.  It wasn't as large as me because I was pure plasma, a glowing bodiless form that was pure energy and intelligences I was neither male or female my vision was 360% I had the ability to see into the future thousands of years, and what's more the awesomeness of it all didn't faze me in the least. The spirit that entered my room was Ann, she begged me not to go. I never remembered hearing my answer to her. I woke up a few hours later while being taken up the elevator to the intensive care unit.

I was placed in a slot in a room that had maybe ten beds, the doctor told me my heart stopped three times. 'No!' I said. 'Just twice, once when the nurse standing next to you had tripped trying to get to me and hit me on the chest, and then the second time was when the brunette entered the room and took my wife out, and you arrived with a Chinese doctor with a bald spot on the top of his head entered the room. There were five of you in the room working on me'. My doctor seemed disturbed by what I had said and left, but the blond nurse looked shocked at what I had told him.

Four days later I was being prepared for an angiogram, a shoulder length blond entered my room and wanted to interview me about my experience in the emergency room. I agreed to the interview and after it was over, she was wiping tears from her eyes.

'Why are you crying if this event happens all the time?'

'Because you are the first that saw things you couldn't have ever seen. You were straight line with your eyes closed and yet witnessed one of the nurse's trip over your wife's foot, and then you were correct about the brunette nurse that took your wife away, and thirdly you saw the bald spot on the top of the Chinese doctor's head. You could not have seen this unless you had left your body.'

Apparently, people see lights and hear what's going on around them when their heart stops, but I was able to view and hear everything going on while flat on my back with my eyes closed and my heart stopped.

For two years after this event I was depressed dealing with the how and why of it all. I kept wondering why I had this event and lived through it. I do know the answer now but you will need to wait to find out what I had learned from my experience later. My life had been spared on many occasions before this event took place and since, I hate to use the word died, dead, deceased, or spared because I will make this as clear as I can. Nobody dies for so much as an instant in time. We never stop living not for a single moment, but for readers to understand what they have learned their whole life is that we live and die. We go to heaven or hell, but the truth is, there isn't a hell for anyone other than what one may view looking over their past deeds or lack thereof. We are the deciders whether we have lived a good life and did the best we could while living as mortals on this or any other planet.

Many people have asked me if I saw God when I had my out of body experience? Oh yea! What does God look like they ask? Well he looks just like me I answer, God isn't male or female, and God resides in all of us. If you could visualize a beautiful tropical paradise with crystal clear waters.  Rather than sand on the beach and lagoons they were diamonds that were so bright and beautiful that it almost blinded you from looking at the brilliants gleaming up at you, you see each diamond on the sands of all the oceans and beaches throughout the universe represents a single soul, which represents us. No soul is brighter nor more worthy, no stronger or powerful than the next, we all come with the same power and love and understanding as the next, and without one of us on the oceans or beaches throughout the universe it is just not quite as beautiful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June12, 1989'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the beginning when I could see the future for thousands of years.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That humans would continue for thousands of years, and technology would advance with the use of electromagnetic power through the use of mega-super conductivity.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew the future. And I knew that nobody ever dies.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Most people don't believe in the powers that exist in humans. Attempting to explain my experience sometimes is difficult because you may run into a very religious person who decides that you're Satan. I must measure my words very close around some people. I'm pretty good at sizing them up. But now and again I run in to an insecure Jesus freak.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Too many to explain. Conduit from those dying to tell their family member that they knew how much they loved them - father sending me a message at Burbank Airport to inform a stranger that his father could hear his thoughts and how much his son loved him even though he never said it to his father in life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowledge of immortality, and also how weak our human side is when it comes to vast knowledge. There seems to be a reason why we only use a small portion of our brains. We do use all of our abilities throughout our lifetime but for short periods of time. We do not have the capacity to use all there is to know for any length of time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A week after the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was surprised that I chose to stay human. I know now why I'm here. But it didn't make it much better knowing how incredible life is after you're gone.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have a learning disability which is dyslexia. I have a third grade ability to write or use proper grammar. But! If I dream it! It happens. If I feel it, I succeed. I have all these wishes that come true for me. Wealth is not measured by how much money you have obtained, but rather how much you've been loved.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have unlimited abilities that would be considered supernatural.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I believe you should focus more on what changes concerning ESP took place after having such an unworldly experience. How much more are we aware of our abilities and experiences? When it asks for a religious choice at the beginning is 'None' a good answer. I couldn't submit my paper work unless I chose one of three.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gregory_c_nde.html