{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gregg_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Gregg S NDE 4615","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gregg S NDE 4615  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gregg S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2334 Gregg S NDE 4615  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A Naval Reserve dentist was extracting several of my teeth with a certain degree of difficulty. I was in the chair from approximately 08:00 hours to 14:00 hours. Upon returning to duty with my training platoon, I experienced difficulty in breathing and convulsions. I was taken to my platoon's duty office where the they called for an ambulance. During the time I was in the duty office, I was curled up in a tight fetal position with extreme muscle cramping and loss of consciousness. It was about this time that I became aware that I was observing this event from an elevated position in the room, on top of a bank of lockers. At the time, I was confused as to how I could be in two places at once and immediately realized that my consciousness was not in my body.

Two medical technician types came and started to pull me up off the floor in a rather brisk manner. I watched in amazement as my body reacted by unfolding my arms from the crossed position on my chest, which caused the two medical technicians to collide above my body. This all seemed very comical to me at the time. In fact, the entire matter was funny to me.

As the ambulance pulled away with my body, I felt odd and decided to get in the back with my body. I don't recall anything exciting like passing through the metal of the closed door to get inside but somehow I went with the ambulance and my body away from my duty area to the medical facility on base.

My next conscious recall was of waking in a dimensionless white place. I tried to raise my hand to feel the whiteness in front of me, to find that it was a sheet that had been placed over my face. When I pushed it away from me, it fell off me. I sat up on the gurney that they had placed my body on and proceeded to scare the young man next to me out of his wits. I was back in my body and conscious.

At the time, I tried to make sense of what had happened, but just figured I had hallucinated.

Since then, the two other incidences have brought me to a different conclusion. The two other incidences have much the same aspects of the out of body experience. The one thing that all three have in common was a sense of wellbeing and a realization of myself in an alternate reality where I was still me, with all my senses intact as far as I can tell.

I don't feel any great realization from all this other than a different view of life and death, and less of a feeling in the finality of either.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1964-1974 & 1980
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Allergic reaction  '1964 Allergic reaction to overdose of Novocain in dental   1974 construction accident, Crane malfunction 1980 Extreme abdominal distress and consequent error in emergency room.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   1964 drug overdose of Novocain under a dentist's care.  1974 Crane/operator malfunction led to fall.  1980 attending physician left inexperienced staff to complete stomach pumping. Tubes went into lungs instead of stomach and collapsed lungs resulting in cardio/pulmonary failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Just before returning to the body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before returning to the body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time. Everything seemed to happen at once, when in fact the events that took place took a while to unfold.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Remote viewing of the events taking place.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Humor, compassion, anger.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   no preference

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   no preference

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Before these events in my life I was searching for answers to the great questions. Since, I accept that everything just 'IS'. Everything is 'NOW'.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of self-awareness was still intact. Most of my emotions and individual characteristics seemed to be in play. Most of all my ability to laugh in the face of this adversity seemed to alleviate my fears.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was several years after the first experience before I shared it with anybody. They seemed skeptical but kind. After the next events much the same reaction took place.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     1964 left me uneasy about the experience. The subsequent times have affirmed what happened originally. Now I just figure its how things work sometimes.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gregg_s_nde.html