{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1greg_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Greg D NDE 3934","mylang":"de"}
          	        Greg D NDE 3934  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Greg D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1871 Greg D NDE 3934  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I stood at the top of the stairs at work looking downward and felt lightheaded. I could not see anything around me. The only sense that I was experiencing was one of lightening. I could not taste, smell or feel anything. What felt like a few seconds later was a visual effect of all the great things that happened in my life. It was as though I was watching a video of my life - starting out slowly and increasing in speed toward the end. Then all of a sudden, it felt as though I was standing in the middle of a football field in total darkness. It was a feeling of open space for at least a few hundred feet around me. As I looked upward, I could see a rim of light at the very top of where I was. Air brushed behind my neck and I thought someone was behind me. I heard a voice coming toward me. A man's voice was in a different language. It was more of a whisper that turned into English, telling me 'It's almost time.' I saw quick pictures of myself aging from childhood to adulthood and more forward. All of a sudden, a jerk came across my body and it automatically shifted 180 degrees.

I had then opened my eyes lying in a hospital bed wondering what the heck had just happened? I was told that I had an asthma attack while at work and had stopped breathing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-9-2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Shortness of breath(asthma)  Other Dizziness which lead to falling down a flight of stairs.  I had no recollection of falling down a flight of stairs. I can only remember being lightheaded at the top of the stairs at work.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The top of everything that I saw was clear as day. The further downward I looked, the fuzzier it got.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not recognize the voices. They were of a different language unfamiliar to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It felt like I was standing in the middle of a football stadium in darkness. I could physically see light at the rim of the top of wherever I was at.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I had air passing around my neck. I could not feel my hands or feet. I heard some foreign voices. And then someone said, 'It's almost time.'

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I could physically see light at the rim of the top of wherever I was at.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Perplexed what had happened. Overall I had no stress.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything good that happened to me was noticed: First Communion, High School Graduation, Meeting my Wife for the first time, Sporting Events...

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   At first I thought I had fallen asleep in the dining area at work. Therefore I realized something had really happened once I was in the hospital.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started to hear voices about one year later while sitting in a room alone. I realized that I heard these voices before but couldn't remember when. Then when I was alone writing a memo - it hit me - I remembered where I heard the voices from.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was dreaming differently. I was able to remember my dreams more vividly than ever. I was never able to do that until after the NDE. My dreams were including individuals from the past.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Life seems to be easier to accept. And I've learned to accept the fact that 'every organism that breathes air and drinks water will perish the earth one day.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   See above, in relation to that, I was prescribed medication to help rid of the voices I was hearing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am willing to share this in an open learning environment/session. But not in front of my family yet.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1greg_d_nde.html