{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1greg_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Greg C NDE 2787","mylang":"de"}
          	        Greg C NDE 2787  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Greg C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1026  Greg C NDE  2787  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was still a young child and of an age where one has no cares in the world. My father, who had a senior position in the Tourism sector, was in the habit of taking me with him when he went to work. I knew everyone there, and took a great pleasure in playing and discussing things with the adults. By nature very curious, I was never backward in putting all sorts of questions to them, which often resulted in gales of laughter mixed with tenderness. I amused myself by running around and visiting the remoter corners of the premises. I rooted about everywhere, in search of who knows what imaginary treasures, casting myself as the hero and inventing adventures and missions to accomplish. One fine day, I ventured to the kitchen, where pre-dinner drinks were prepared for big receptions. It was quite large, rectangular, and there was always something there for me to nibble.

I saw one of the cooking stoves, which had been removed from its usual place, and behind it, there was an enormous earthed electric socket in the wall. The plug was not connected, so I decided for amusement to plug it into the wall socket. I did not know at this time whether the socket was protected by its plastic surround or if the wires were properly insulated, all I know is that I was very attracted by this 'new game'. So having decided to amuse myself plugging the connection in, I received an electric shock from head to toe. A massive discharge paralyzed me, I felt a kind of 'burning' inside me, my heart stopped, and during this time (I had no more notion of time, and do not know whether I was lying on the floor for twenty minutes or only thirty seconds) I lost consciousness. I then found myself bathed in a sort of white light, which covered all the walls. The light was not blinding but was of an extreme whiteness, restful, entirely peaceful; I felt no emotions, neither fear nor joy, but an impression of total serenity.

I was melting into this light, I was in it and it was in me, we formed a unity. Today I am convinced that other events occurred, following this, but I can no longer remember anything.

Above all, the impression was of complete safety, I knew that something very serious had just happened, but I had no fear. I feared nothing. At a given moment, which is indeterminate, I regained consciousness. All I remember is that I was trembling, felt cold, and that my body was incredibly heavy! I remember feeling that I had 'lived through' something extraordinary, but without any precise memories remaining of it all, other than that infinite restful white light. I felt myself as if 'transfigured'. When I saw my father and the people he worked with again, I had an understanding that my life and my way of seeing things, despite those events which were beyond my memory or comprehension, would be totally transformed from that day onwards.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Entre 1979 et 1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Heart attack     En touchant une grosse prise éléctrique murale près d'une cuisinière partiellement débranchée.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Perte de conscience ( et arrêt du coeur ? ) suite à une forte décharge électrique.  Danger of electrocution.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My state of consciousness was different, also I was detached from everything, bathed in a different consciousness, at the same time I was myself and also a universal consciousness, I was that light and that light was me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully aware during the experience but I had not the same consciousness of 'self'. I was myself, but with a different consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time had no meaning; I have no idea how long I remained unconscious.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no 'vision', properly speaking, I was vision, I was 'nothing but' vision inasmuch as my vision was total and not limited by our habitual perceptions.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noises or sounds, perfect silence. Sensation of infinite, safe, tender silence.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I have no memory of this.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I have no memory of this.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Enveloping light, very white and not blinding, everything was light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     La lumière.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Tenderness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     No precise memories, but I know that this experience completely changed my view of this afterwards. I became a child who was 'different' from the others.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        My religious involvement, and later on my refusal of it, my marriage, divorce, decline and then awakening in suffering. Consciousness of what I truly am and expectation of my future 'resurrection'. I knew, have always known, since the experience, and I even had a prescience about it previously.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Je sentais une grande présence en moi depuis plus jeune encore, je savais qu'il s'agissait de Dieu mais dans ma tête d'enfant, il était difficile de m'en faire un idée précise.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Let's say I became involved with the Catholic Church but this was a failure as I did not find there what I was seeking.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Au fond de moi, j'ai toujours un grand amour pour Dieu mais je n'ai pas d'église. Je pense que Dieu n'a pas de religion non plus, sa seule religion étant que nous nous aimions les uns les autres. Le reste étant confié à notre seul jugement.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Let's say I became involved with the Catholic Church but this was a failure as I did not find there what I was seeking.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have attempted to decipher this knowledge in myself, have frequently gone astray, but I very often see through other people, I feel what they feel, (anger, love or indifference) and I can (sometimes) predict their reactions in advance.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Completely. I became more sensitive and receptive but with many negative aspects as well: I became a bit cut off from the world and I feel myself still to be just as different.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   No difficulties of description.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I very often see through other people, I feel what they feel, (anger, love or indifference) and I can (sometimes) predict their reactions in advance.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This experience changed my perception of things, I became ultra-sensitive to everything. But it also disturbed and disoriented me later on.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Never.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Not at all.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Real because lived through. I was another reality, but as real as the one we experience on this level.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real and I believe many people will recognize themselves if they have lived through the same things. This reality lives within me day after day and several future events have proved to me a confirmation of this.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Two: during my military service, when at the end of a physically particularly trying course. I felt taken over by boundless love (the presence of God, rather than a vision) as I was supporting a comrade who was suffering terribly, and weeping. This lasted a good three minutes, the time it took to carry him back to camp. It was extraordinary. I felt everything that people feel during and NDE, it felt even stronger than my own NDE, without being close to death or immediate danger!  The second time after my divorce: I was lying down and desperate, when I felt a strong presence engulfing me with the same intensity of unconditional love.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       We are all lost children, thirsting for love. We must channel this force and this energy in order to find ourselves. We are born from the light and we must again become this light while on the earth in order to save souls which are suffering.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No suggestions for the moment.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1greg_c_nde.html