{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1greg_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Greg B NDE 3841","mylang":"de"}
          	        Greg B NDE 3841  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Greg B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1811 Greg B NDE 3841  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first thing I see as I step out of the bright light is that I am a little higher than everyone else. I can see all the way to the horizon. In front of me, first is a half circle of forty or fifty ladies. ;he first to meet me is my mama; she was my mom's mom, Viola. To my right was my granny Eddie. Next, was my aunt Jeannie with my great grandmas, her sisters and so on. Off to the left there where Indians dancing and singing to the right both my pops were leaning up against some kind of traditional boat. Then behind the ladies the men like they were waiting for the women to stop fussing over me.  Behind them, there were people side by side twenty or even forty wide all the way to the horizon, thousands of people. 

After being judged by GOD, I stepped out of the bright light and saw everyone.  The words out of my mouth to my mama were, 'Who the hell are all these people?' She said, 'What do you mean baby, they are you, they are all you.' I knew that meant that everyone I saw was from the generations before me and all the way back to the very start. The only male I got close to was my uncle Herschel who was pushing his way with force to reach me. I think he thought I wasn't going to be there long.

Just before he touched me, my brother found me, rolled me on my side, and in cleared my airway. Snap! In an instant, I was back in this life. Since coming back, my family and I have researched our ancestry only to find out that everything and everyone I saw was accurate.

What it looked like for me it was all about who was there but it looked like grassy plains of the US maybe because of the Indians in my blood it was all rolling hills blowing grass with buffalo and Indian ponies running, I am light skinned deep blue eyes. And in my heaven the connection to my native blood is recent and strong.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 26, 2007 515am

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  IllnessDirect head injury  see above  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) gran-mal seizure due to csf infection of the brain untreated  I am not sure I get the question. But if I read this right the answer is no.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as GOD had finished judging me I stepped out of the bright light I was fully aware.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My Heaven.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was people lined up to the horizon to greet me but I could only make out the faces of the first group of a hundred or so. But there were thousands and thousands.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Do you mean family? If yes see above if not then no.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   My light came after being judged by GOD I know this because my family that greeted me was thanking God for allowing me into heaven and the light too my back was blinding.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Plains Inians

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused for seconds but then completely understood and never more LOVED AND GRATEFUL.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I beloved in GOD and what comes next, I believe religion fractures mankind from GOD. How we treat each other and care for each other as human beings is the true path to heaven.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I beloved in GOD and what comes next, I believe religion fractures mankind from GOD. How we treat each other and care for each other as human beings is the true path to heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The short of it I think the Indians had it right it takes a village to raise a child, take care of mother earth. Protect and respect our elders the knowledge they hold. Religion is not the path to salvation but HUMANITY that will open your door to heaven. Trust me when I say we all get judged in the end, all of us, the question is how will you stand before GOD?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes You just don't die and come back and have it not touch everything. Recently I spoke to buddies from my time in the air force twenty-five years ago.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most people live their life with faith, I have seen it, but with that comes a responsibility I will not stand in front of GOD a second time and be asked so that's it that's what you did with your second shot. No, I don't think so. I will be a human being!!!!!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few months, totally accepting, yes, facts about our families' past came to light.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's what comes next.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's what comes next.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would just like to say please listen I don't know how this could make a difference but maybe somehow anyway GOD BLESS from me to you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1greg_b_nde.html