{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1greely_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Greeley C NDE 20215","mylang":"de"}
          	        Greeley C NDE 20215  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Greeley C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						289  Greeley C NDE  20215  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the washroom having problems breathing.  All of a sudden, I was looking at myself. I could see the whole washroom but it was like I was near the upper far left corner looking down towards the toilet.  The washroom was not big, but it was all in view. I looked at my body on the toilet.  It looked like I was slumped over and leaning to my left.  All of a sudden, I realized I was not in myself and that did not seem to bother me. I was not feeling anything but peace.  Then I realized I did not even feel my breathing.  It was at that moment when I saw I was not breathing that a panicky feeling overcame me.  It was as if I was sucked back very fast into myself, as if the second I panicked that I was back and gasping for air.


I have never had an experience like this since but I would like to do it again.  It scared me at first but now, later in life, I know there is nothing to be afraid of.  Death is nothing to be scared of now.  I have tried to project myself since and read up on it but to no use.  It was a once in a lifetime experience that changed my life.  I know for sure there is something more when we die.  We leave our bodies. I now believe in a similar manner but that is just my opinion. I myself know, think and believe with all my heart now that there is more.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    june 1982

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Clinical death I went into anaphylaxis shock from dog dander and ceased to breath.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      During the experience I could see all going on around me and everything happening.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I knew I was in my washroom.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I did not feel like I normally would and I had no smell that I can remember.  But I could feel I was not breathing.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was fine at first and really did not have any feelings other than feeling very at peace, even while watching myself until I saw I was not breathing then I felt panicked.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Full belief in God and the Catholic Church Now this experience directed me to God through time and study for now I know there is life after death

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in the afterlife, from that day on I was a true believer and no longer afraid of death also I am now a true believer in God and the Holy Catholic Church.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feeling I first had, but the worst part was the panic I felt when I realized I was not breathing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My mother she did not believe me, a priest he believed me, and my wife also believed me. My wife was a attempted murder victim from before I meet her and she has had a near death experience of a tunnel and a choice of whether to go or stay, so she believe me as well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1greely_c_nde.html