{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1granit_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Granit N NDE 3707","mylang":"de"}
          	        Granit N NDE 3707  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Granit N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1724 Granit N NDE 3707  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was eight years old as I was walking through the streets of Breda one day after New Year's Day. We were on a visit there. Just like every other child, I loved fireworks and that day I picked up a big illegal firecracker from the ground. This firecracker was designed to explode quickly but I didn't know that. I lit it and suddenly I was in a rotating tunnel (a kind of cloud) and inside the tunnel, there were billions of small lights. I looked around, I was surprised and had no idea what was happening. I heard beautiful music that resembled classical music. I remember (like it happened yesterday) the feeling I had: peaceful, quiet, without worries. At the end of the tunnel was a large light, which looked like the sun, but this light I could look into. I remember saying (telepathic words not by word of mouth): 'Wow it is beautiful here. Where am I?' Suddenly with the speed of lightning, I was back in my body. My ears sang and slowly my vision came back. I cried and looked at my hand. And miracle of miracles all I saw was a little blood, I hadn't lost a finger. I think that while I was in the tunnel of return (that's how I call it) God or an Angel protected my body and my hand.

I told my mother and said, 'Mom I was with Zoti (God in Albanian).' But she told me I had imagined it. Often I recollected the event, I had an image of God and I understood things better than other children.

But when I was about eighteen years old and I lost myself in religious matters I was depressed for three years. The dogmas of Islam and Christianity frightened me. I didn't know what to do and almost lost my mind. When I saw a broadcast about NDEs, I thought, 'Hey that's what happened to me.' Ever since I lost myself in NDE matters and that gives me tranquility and peace. In this I recognize the true God and His nature.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Other Na een vuurwerkexplosie van een gevonden illegaal vuurwerk.  I don't know if an illegal fire cracker can be life threatening. I knew I could lose a finger but die? Thank God I was alright!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw many lights I had never seen before and the bright 'supreme' light at the end of the tunnel. Here you can't look into the sun but over there you can.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel that rotated with billions of small lights and music.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I don't remember seeing any other beings or someone speaking to me, unfortunately my NDE didn't last very long.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The 'supreme' light at the end resembled the sun but you could look into it and that was a warming and good feeling.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     De tunnel zelf was al verbazingwekkend genoeg!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, amazement, peace, tranquility, reality, satisfaction, Divine proximity and wisdom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Eerst was ik meer religie gelovig. Maar sinds een depressie ben ik me meer in de BDE's gaan verdiepen. Als het mij niet was overkomen had ik het nooit geloofd en was ik wellicht nog steeds depressief en twijfelachtig.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've abandoned Islam and religion in general and I focus more on life itself and God. You don't need anyone else to have a relationship with God. By nature, man needs God. In difficult times, man calls upon God even atheists. I know for sure and I've experienced it! The reason people turn against God is that they don't want to commit to the insanity of certain religions.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've abandoned Islam and religion in general and I focus more on life itself and God. You don't need anyone else to have a relationship with God. By nature, man needs God. In difficult times, man calls upon God even atheists. I know for sure and I've experienced it! The reason people turn against God is that they don't want to commit to the insanity of certain religions.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   At that moment it seemed I knew everything and nothing. It's hard to describe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't know, I've always been different.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   At that moment I didn't know what was happening. When I came back I told my mother spontaneously that I had been with Zoti (God in Albanian) but she said I had imagined that.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I often know what people are thinking and why they do what they do. I know who is lying and cheating or who is honest. At school, I don't have to study much because I get it right away. I often think other people are slow-witted and don't see the entire picture. I still have bad traits and one of them is that I look down upon people who don't understand something.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Now that I know it isn't strange to have had an NDE I have told a lot of people. Many don't say a thing but think I'm weird. My cousin had an angel experience about two weeks after I told him about my NDE. He said: 'Granit I thought you were crazy but now I know better!'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The tranquility and peace. It is sometimes difficult for me to live in this world, which I love very much. Religion destroyed me but the NDE helps me to beat the dogmas and tenets.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You have to experience it yourself. You can't explain it to others. Some scientists call it hallucinations. But isn't it a funny coincidence that everyone who had a NDE had similar hallucinations? Also things happen during your NDE you can't make up, like the tunnel. Not one religion speaks of a tunnel to paradise.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1granit_n_nde.html