{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1graham_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Graham B NDE 2943","mylang":"de"}
          	        Graham B NDE 2943  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Graham B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1027  Graham B NDE  2943  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was involved in a road accident outside my place of work on 17/10/2007. I was running late for work that morning and I went to cross the main road outside the front entrance of my work building. I noticed a police motorcycle blocking traffic into this road on my right hand side, I looked to my left and the traffic was stationary due to the lights being red. All I thought was clear to cross and then halfway across I noticed an object in the corner of my eye moving towards me at great speed. Before I had chance to react my vision got brighter and brighter until it was pure white, next thing I experienced was floating over my body but facing the opposite direction I was facing before crossing the road, I was moving down the road I just walked down but in the opposite direction. It felt weird; I experienced this for around thirty seconds or so. When I came round I was lying on the floor in a great deal of pain, apparently the bike did not hit me, but I fell backwards, breaking my leg and fracturing my hand, with a large hole in the skin on my head. Otherwise, everything was okay. I found out later that I was conscious and my eyes were open, but I don't recall being conscious, only the OBE. Bystanders thought I was dead because nobody lies on the ground with their eyes open unless they are dead. That's all I can recall of the accident. Following this in hospital, I had a few more OBE's, having the feeling that I was paralyzed and not being able to move, I heard a buzzing noise and when I went to move my hand it came away from my body. This happened for a couple of weeks whilst in hospital and for a number of weeks when I came home. Now I get OBE's occasionally, less than three times a year at best.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 17/10/2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   At the time of this experience, was there an associated life threatening event? Yes I believed I was going to die when I saw the object speeding towards me, I think my last words before the OBE were 'Oh sh**!'  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the floating part.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the floating part.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     White haze over the world, brighter than normal.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can't remember if I heard sounds, I'm not sure.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could see normal people walking around as if I wasn't there. As in humans, walking to work on a morning.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Not an emotion as such, I'm not sure.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've found that my reoccurring OBE's seem to be Astral Projections.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The leaving of the body. This seems to be a significant experience. I am trying to focus and control my OBE/Astral Projections in order to gain a better insight into my experiences.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Six months. I told my brother, then three years later I told a couple of friends at work. All were very skeptical, only one person who was a Reiki found my experience fascinating. I have also recently shared my experience on a couple of web forum sites.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed the reality as if I was standing there watching it from a crane and looking down on the world. The only difference was the light brightness and the white haze (very light).  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know the experience is real, because I have had further OBE/Astral projections following the first one. And it feels exactly the same.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I found smoking cannabis reproduced part of the effect, it got me to the point where I felt I was in a position to leave my body once again.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1graham_b_nde.html