{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1graciela_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Graciela H NDE 2274","mylang":"de"}
          	        Graciela H NDE 2274  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Graciela H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						652  Graciela H NDE  2274  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

During my time before surgery, two or three minutes, a medical student from the same college were I studied computer programming was in the room. Other medical students were inside the same surgery room with my doctor and other doctors and nurses. I remember reading and smiling saying, 'Oh, you are in the same University.' He began to tell me, count to zero beginning with ten. I remember seeing the gas inside my mask and counting from ten to seven. Suddenly I saw the room was a little bit dark.  My doctor was working on my surgery. I saw while he applied something cold to my body like Betadine.

I did not feel the cut on my stomach but I began to feel heavier and elevating my head to see what was going on from a better view. I saw my dad in between the group of doctors and nurses. He was watching the doctor doing my surgery. I knew he wasn't there. A few hours before my surgery, I spoke to my mom and dad; they were in Panama opening a new Restaurant. It was not possible for them to be there with me, until three or four days later. I was in Costa Rica having my baby. Almost eight hours driving. I began to talk to my dad; I was in a sitting position. I saw my body was down and I was sitting. I didn't know what exactly was happening, all I remembered was that I was in a surgery.

Then as I saw my father could not hear me, I saw doctors working fast on me; I can hear very far away they were agitated. I could not hear their words clearly. They did CPR. Everybody began to leave the room slowly. I didn't understand why they were acting like that. Everything was quiet. I decided to get up. Only my doctor stood in the same place, looking at my body. I decided to get closer, I was standing near him, I could feel he was sad and his soul was in pain. I remember touching his shoulder, then he left after I softly touched his shoulder. My father was near my body the whole time. He didn't talk to me just stared at my body. I understood at that moment how attach my dad was to me somehow, and I knew at that moment something was going to happen to my dad, I could not know what, but I can felt it at that moment.

My body began to elevate and elevate, I can say taken by a strange force.

It was great; my body was getting lighter and lighter. While going through the roof of the surgery room I discovered I could move anywhere I want. I saw the walls of the surgery room closer; finally, this strange force was elevating my body faster. I can see going through the ceiling of the room. Passing the ceiling after my chest, it was another stage, other time, other place. I was learning and experiencing all this knowing at that moment all those feelings were new to me.

I decided to stick my head inside the room again to see if I was dreaming or that it was a reality. I did it and I saw the surgery room again. It was like diving inside time and future through a hole in time. I decided, to keep going with the new and strange force rather than staying in the surgery room. Inside the surgery, room was darker, compared to the other side.

I kept accepting the force, I was pulled to a place where there were bright clouds, a room or space were all around me was light, very bright and filling my body with energy, filling my chest with happiness. I looked at my arms, same shape as a human, but different material, the material was as white gas mixed with white glow, silver glow, pearl glow around my body, and I was beautiful. I had no mirror to see my face but I can feel my face was pretty, I saw my arms and my legs had a white simple long dress of light. Heavy light that I can feel was a material or fabric. My voice was as a teenager mixed with tone of voice as a child. Maybe six or ten years old. But my mind was old as twenty-three.

Suddenly a light brighter than my body approached me from the right side of this bright place. His light was making me blind and making me be on my knees and cover my face. Finally, I decided I don't care if I go blind, I need to see his face. At that point I had an attitude of what else can happen to me, I been pulled out from one place to an strange place I had never seen before, so I was open to a new experience. He had something like wings behind his white long dress, long wings touching the floor and twice the height of his body size. His face was only light, his two eyes were brighter than the light covering his face, the shape of his eyes even if it was a strange light, were more beautiful than anything I seen in this world. I realized I was not able to see his face; it was too much beauty behind the light. I still was on my knees facing him, when He said in a very male fine voice, 'You are not going to be able to continue.' I began to feel heavier, heavier and I was weaker to the point that I began to cry.

As a sick baby does when it doesn't have energy to cry. I remember talking his same language with my mind; he spoke with his mind too. Our mind had tone of voices as human. I asked him why if he knew how painful it was going be in my past stage, then why does he want me to go back again? I said: 'You can actually feel anything I feel, you know how bad is to be human.' I told him my soul is in pain now, I began to cry and cry as a sick baby. I got mad because I was wiping my tears with my hands, and I discover tears are visible when we are human, I had no tears. I was just making the noise of crying. I kept telling him, please I want to go home, and I belong there. I was showing him in my left side was a cloudy door or hole or tunnel with a soft brighter particular shiny light like tears of rays of light, and my body or shoulder was being pulled up to it. I understood it is the path or way to go home. I said, 'I belong there, and there is my home, let me go.' He stopped the strange force.

  					  Making me understand crying in the other side is refusing to do what I had been told to do. He picked me up, held me on his arms. He was quiet the whole time, gave me strength. I felt love and energy, I can compare this feeling just ten percent is like when my mom used to hold me when I was two or three years old. There is no love and strength in this world compared to that few moments while he held me. While I accepted his statement, with his voice his second statement was, 'You were sent here by mistake, somebody's mistake. You need to go back. It is not time for you to come here yet. To come here you need to accomplish many things.' I asked him, which things? He said, 'Try to help several people.' I said, 'How, and why me? Send somebody else!' Even after death, we still have our same attitude, refusing to do things and refusing to learn more about the fact of life. 'You go now!' I refused one more time, it seems I was growing in energy enough to fight him, then a third time he said 'You must go now!'  					  

  					  His voice was like when somebody is in a hurry and afraid that I was not going to make it on my way back, somehow I understood that I was losing my path back to my body and I was not going to have a chance there or here. His voice was so powerful that his last statement was, 'You need to go now!' I felt pushed back, entering my body through my feet, I refused once again because I needed to ask him one more thing - when I will be back?, He said, 'You will know.' Then I entered my body through my feet and I hit my head in the inside. Then I opened my eyes, everything around was metal doors, people on metal tables, one body had another body on top, I recognized the place. I was in the morgue. I felt ice on my eyelashes. My body was cold. I could not feel anything. Not even able to move my neck or talk. I was feeling sleepy, I knew if I closed my eyes I will be stored two or three hours later. I heard voices, opened my eyes again. I saw two male nurses asking themselves where to put the next body.  They were beside my table. I knew I had to make eye contact with one of them, I barely had strength to blink my eyes repeatedly, but I did. It took a lot of energy. He look at me, scared, telling his partner, 'Look, look! She is moving her eyes!' He laughingly said, 'Let's go, this place is scary.'  					  

Inside of me I was screaming, 'Please don't leave!' When they came back an old man came back too, He was sitting on the metal table. At least he had the strength to sit down. He could not talk neither. I didn't close my eyes until the nurses and the doctors came. All I heard is who did this, who sent this patient to the morgue. The doctors were mad. I closed my eyes until was sure I was far away from that place. I didn't wake up until three or four days later. I had episodes of sleeping for long periods of time and being awake for three or four hours and sleeping again. I could not talk. On day five I began to move my arms and legs and sleeping again. Later that day doctors, explained to me, that I was sent there by mistake, that I had to be in observation because of their mistake. I doctor told me I had the right to fight the hospital for their mistake. They helped me to walk again, with therapy.

Somehow, I was afraid to talk. After all this experience, I was afraid to talk or do many things. Once again, that angel or person in the other side showed me that we think we do things on our own, and if we do, we have to face our own consequences. One of the things I learned is that there is no time to waste doing the wrong things; we need to do everything good for our sake in the other side. It's like a bank, you save that much you will get that much at the end. After my surgery, I didn't remember anything, but since then, once every year I have been having visions of what happen in my surgery. These visions occur while I am sitting always and very relaxed. In my daily life, I have visions of big events that are going to happen to others around me. Sometimes I wish those visions would go away. It's why I try to work hard and keep myself tired, if I am tired I don't have visions. Also even when I am tired, I get this male voice telling me, do it this way, don't go this way, it is like it is taking care of me. I always hear his voice in the right side of my brain. In the hospital I can feel when a patient requires help in a fast way.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 24, 1989  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     during surgery my body went to sleep but afterwards, I was aware of everything they were doing to me, and I didn┤t care.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) My son┤s birth,  a cesarean  I could feel this powerful person of light was making me understand all in a faster way, talking to me faster and faster as I had to come back before something else happen, I was running out of time and I had to come back. I came back to my body with the power of his voice, his voice was pushing my soul back to my body against my will, almost ten inches before I entered my body I asked him when I will comeback, he said I will know when. The sensation of not having time anymore still with me since then every day of my life. I do many things day by day and I still feel bad because I know I am running out of time.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was told I was not going to remember who told me all these words, I still told that man or angel, I will remember.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time, then I began to feel heavier and mad, sad, crying and weaker, losing my ability to fly when this angel or person was telling me there was no choice at this moment, 'You need to go back, you are here by somebody's mistake. It is not time for you to come here yet. To come here you need to accomplish many things.' I asked him what things. Try to help several people. I said, 'How and why me? Send somebody else!!!' Even after death, we still have our same attitude, refusing to do things and refusing to learn more about the fact of life. Life is not only here is also after death, and learning is forever.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     We live at the same time, just different space of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness everywhere I saw, the tunnel and the angel, the tunnel was my way home and even when he was holding me the energy coming through the tunnel was pulling my particles in my body. He knew we belonged to the same place but somehow is my duty to finish what they want me to finish.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear people talking even if they are far, far away from me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was in front of me, the angel did not allowed me to pass it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A man talking the same language I spoke, wasn't Spanish, wasn't English.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Two lights, both different types of light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The space where I was, it was like no place in earth, landscaping beautiful and new, and full of happiness, no living people there just a space to prior the entrance to the tunnel kept in time.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing, is when you think then you do, I think I want to get up, so I did, and then the force comes to you after twenty minutes. You can wander everywhere and afterwards you begin to be pulled up towards the ceiling or roof.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Not the past. After I came back, one year later my father had a heart attack and stroke, giving him no time of survival. It means, I didn't see the past, I saw my dad was next to die.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Seventh day Adventist, I stop going to church in 1985, since then I still living my personal life as if I still going to church.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel I don't have time to relax or meditate in church or to thank God for all he has done for me, I feel in my heart I have no time to lose than helping others.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel I don't have time to relax or meditate in church or to thank God for all he has done for me, I feel in my heart I have no time to lose than helping others.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Help people.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Freedom in earth is not the same freedom after death, our freedom is just because we leave our body and we can move faster or fly without wings.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Visions, voices guiding me every day.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole time I experienced it has been important to me in many ways.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few, people think you are crazy if you talk about it. The ones I had to tell my experience is because they lost something and I walk in front of them and find it in front of them. Then they start asking me if I have powers. I say no, they keep following me, and then I tell them what happened to me. But that doesn't mean that I have powers.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   After my surgery many times. I almost died in a car accident after my surgery; somebody drove my car while I slept.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       While I take vital signs in hospitals I only can detect almost not touching the patient barely holding with my left hand his pulse or his heart-rate. Some patients asked me why my right hand is too hot. I don't shake hands anymore with my right hand, people claimed I shocked them. These people don't know anything about my NDE.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If you need to know more I'll be happy to tell you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1graciela_h_nde.html