{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gracie_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Gracie T NDE 761","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gracie T NDE 761  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Gracie T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						271  Gracie T NDE  761  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was going along living my happy little life, when in one day; it was almost taken from me.  I thought that I had the flu, but it turns out that the virus attacked the lining of my heart, causing it to swell.  I lost consciousness at home, and an ambulance took me to the hospital.  I coded two times that night, and once the next afternoon.


The third time, I didn't struggle any longer.  I thought, 'This is it, I'm not coming home.'  I let myself swirl away. I saw darkness, but felt peaceful and not scared at all - almost like I was in a deep sleep.  My husband was in the room, and he saw them bag me, inject me, and race in with the crash-cart.  The next thing I saw was the nurse's face.  She said, 'You made it baby. Stay with us.'  At first, I felt disappointed.  I thought, 'Why is this woman waking me up?'  Then almost instantly, I felt like I was given a job to complete, or a mission to fulfill, but I couldn't tell you what that was.  Each and every day, I began frantically searching (refusing to notice the clues that were given to me along the way). I was so desperate to find it, but it just wasn't coming. I began to wonder why I was forced to come back.


As I regained my strength, I began to remember being at the top of the Earth in the white clouds, only the Earth wasn't huge with me as a little speck in the middle. It was small, and surrounded me. I saw two groups of forest (noticing the brown tree tops) with a green valley cut between.  I can feel a distinct field of energy around me at all times. It's all positive energy, and makes me feel so good. I have had one real connection with a woman who put her arms around my body without touching me, and said that she could feel the heat surrounding me almost a foot off my body. When I was standing face to face with her, I could almost breathe her soul. The connection was unbelievable.


My physical wellbeing has changed also.  I'm stronger, more focused, and energetic. The world is too important to be consumed with pettiness, and hypocrisy, and things are in perspective. Day to day chores are now just common, and nothing except this mission that I'm on consumes me.  My husband is having a hard time believing this. He has threatened to leave me at least five times, but I still can't stop myself from finding out what my job is.  All in all, my near death experience is the best thing that has ever happened to me, because it has opened my eyes, and with each passing day, I find another piece to my puzzle, and am becoming more and more complete.  Sometimes I even feel like I'm stuck somewhere between here and there.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    February 18, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     acute pericarditis (i caught a cold in my heart)  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I'm not sure I understand the question.  I had a life-threatening event, but did anyone else that I know have one? The answer is no.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  This just happened to me seven weeks ago, and it seems that I am remembering more and more as time goes on.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I just remember swirling away - deep into the pillow - and then everything was black, but peaceful.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't think I did.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I was surrounded by the Earth I think, but it was small and round, so, I really don't know.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   At the time, no.   But thinking back - it certainly wasn't dark.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the top of the Earth.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am still uncertain about a lot that happened to me. All I can tell you is that as time went on; my life has changed dramatically for the better.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   All I can tell you is I felt kind of forced to come back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know that God is real, and I feel the holy spirit all around me.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Well, it actually took me a couple of days to remember it, but when I did, I knew.  It almost felt like I was at the top of the Earth looking down.  But the Earth wasn't huge, it was small and circular around me.  I saw two groups of forest with a green valley cut between.  I just remember being surrounded - it was peaceful, and I think about it a lot.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can feel some sort of energy all around me. If someone else is 'glowing', I can see it.   I've seen and felt all positive energy except for one night.  I felt a negative source - not surrounding me, but nearby.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst, my husband not believing in me.  He made me feel like I was going crazy, and I even began to question what I saw.  The best, well, I believe that I've met some guides in this life that helped me to believe in myself, kept me on track, and pushed me towards my mission.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only with people that I know will believe me. My favorite question to a new person is, 'What does spirituality mean to you?'  Their answer determines whether or not I share my experience with them.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Mmm, just that it has turned my life around, and I like the way I feel with this energy force around me and when I remember where I was.  Oh, and trust yourself, no matter what anyone tells you, because, as long as you work towards your mission, I don't think any harm will come your way.  That's what I feel anyway.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Nope, I think you've covered everything.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gracie_t_nde.html