{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1grace_nde.html","mytitle":"Grace NDE 22800","mylang":"de"}
          	        Grace NDE 22800  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Grace NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3252 Grace NDE 22800  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a passenger in a Ford Econoline Van, traveling north on I-95 en route to Rhode Island in the early hours after midnight (1:00 to 1:30 am). It had just begun to snow mixed with light rain. I was in the middle row of seats, closest to the side doors. The car skidded and rolled over; I slid sideways, breaking the doors open. I lost consciousness, and came to trapped under the car. The first thing I remember is hearing my companions yelling, ‘Push!’ I tried to push, but found I could not move my arms. I tried to yell, ‘I can't push,’ but found I could not make my mouth speak. They got the car off me and dragged me away along the side of the road, up a small rise. I could hear them talking, but could not make my mouth speak, nor move my limbs.  

Although my body was lying supine, face to the sky, I experienced the scene as if I were sitting upright, a little to the right and behind my body, slightly lower on the rise. I could hear everyone, and see the scene from the vantage point of one sitting up. I was concerned about not being able to make my body work. We waited quite a while, my fiancé speaking to me and me not being able to speak or move. I vaguely wondered about why I was unable to make my body function, and I think the idea of being dead may have been distantly entertained, but my main concern at the time was not being able to make my body work, not feeling connected to it and in control of it. The idea of being dead was curious, not especially frightening. I was mostly curious and a bit annoyed, wondering if being dead explained why I wasn't able to make my body work, but also not believing that that was all there was to death, that it couldn't just be sitting next to one's body not being able to control it, while witnessing the events around me in totality and clarity. Surely if one were actually dead, there should be the white light, or angels, or dead people, or something. I also just couldn't believe that I was actually dead. 

I saw the ambulance arrive, and the paramedic come up the rise with a flashlight in hand. He examined my body, shone the flashlight in my eyes, etc. I saw him shine the light, but did not ‘see’ the light as if with my eyes, did not feel or see light shined in my eyes. The paramedic turned around and called down to the other personnel at the ambulance. He said they could take it on in, that ‘this one's dead.’ He started back down the hill. I was so startled by the announcement that I was, in fact, dead, that I said, aloud, ‘Am I dead?’ At this my fiancé jumped up and ran after the paramedic, yelling that I wasn't dead and they should come get me to the ambulance. After that I was back in my body, so I suppose that was the end of the experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 19, 1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  car accident. Car rolled over, I was trapped beneath. Friends righted car and dragged me away to side of road.   car accident. EMT ascertained I was dead, but I did not feel so.  I had been in a car accident, trapped under a car. When paramedics arrived, they determined I was dead. It was only on hearing that that I spontaneously returned to myself and was able to speak. So, the accident may have been life threatening, although in fact I did not die, so it is hard to say that it was so.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't actually pay attention to my appearance or form at the time. I felt like I was me, but couldn't communicate with my body. I felt like I was in a different place, not far from but not in my body, though.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Except for blacking out during the skidding and rolling of the car in the accident, I felt alert and was aware of the scene and happenings around me.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Only that the space where I actually lay would have had a view up at the sky, while I was seeing things from a vantage point of someone sitting up.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could, however, hear the people around me clearly as they spoke to one another.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I didn't feel very emotional. I was not happy about the idea of being dead, wasn't ready for it, but wasn't terribly sad or frightened, either. I was concerned about not being able to make my body work, and a bit annoyed.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I would say no, except that if I had actually been dead or unconscious, I would not have heard people and would not have seen the paramedic examine me and shine the flashlight in my eyes.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was concerned with not being able to make my body work. It was only afterward that I realized that what I saw was not consistent with what my physical body would have been able to see, that my perspective was from outside my body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was probably that although I was frustrated at being out of contact with my physical body, I was spared the pain it was undergoing. I was also more or less peaceful, although there was some anxiety at the thought of being dead.  The worst part was the lack of control. Being able to enter and leave that kind of experience at will and under conscious control would probably be awesome.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Later in my life I attempted to induce an out of body experience through mind attempts, meditation, etc., with some success.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time. I am tired.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1grace_nde.html