{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1grace_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Grace C NDE 21190","mylang":"de"}
          	        Grace C NDE 21190  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Grace C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						874  Grace C NDE  21190  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been rushed to the hospital early one morning hemorrhaging very badly.  My mom did not know what to do to stop it, so phoned an ambulance to take me to the hospital.  When I arrived there, I was taken in almost immediately and some doctors worked on me to get the bleeding to stop. I was floating out of my body somewhere because I could see both my parents in a waiting room, and my mom was crying.  The next thing that I saw was a tunnel with a bright light that I was being pulled into.  I was not afraid because it was all so very peaceful.  After a while, a grandmother that had passed on just about the time that I had this experience stopped me.  She was a grandmother that I did not like. She was always very mean to me.  She was waiting for me and said that I must go back as I had many things not yet done.  The next thing I remember was seeing the doctors still working on me and then I was back in my body.  One of the doctors some time later had asked if I had seen anything, and when I said that I had, he came to my bed after and asked a lot of questions.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1945

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death .  I had been hemorrhaging very badly and it took the doctors a long time to stabilize me. I would think that was life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert all the time, but was drugged with pain pills.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A grandmother that had not long ago passed on.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   In the tunnel was a bright, white light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happy, content, and peaceful. There was no fear.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My grandmother just said that I had unfinished things to do while on earth and I was to go back. It was not my time.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel that I am not afraid to die.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing the white light and the tunnel.  The worst part was coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My ex-husband.  He was very interested and wanted me to tell him all about it over again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I had another experience just lately where I was out of my body for a time. This was only briefly as the doctors brought me right back.  I did not see the tunnel, or the white light.  I felt very disappointed.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1grace_c_nde.html