{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gp_fde.html","mytitle":"GP FDE 3942","mylang":"de"}
          	        GP FDE 3942  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					GP FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			1877 GP FDE 3942  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on the roof of an apartment that was under construction. There was an opening in the roof for lift on the roof. Accidentally I slipped through it, came to the cellar floor, and fell down on a horizontal beam. My spinal cord thirteenth disk had been damaged. I could remember the fall only. It was about a fifty feet drop. While dropping from the roof through the duct I lost body contact. There was sudden and very bright light I lost consciousness about the physical body and was immersed in the light. I was admitted to hospital and after scans and other tests, the doctors confirmed that there is nothing wrong with my brain. I came to consciousness only after two days of the incident.

I realized the back pain only then. The doctors have not diagnosed the damage to the spine disk. They have done tests only to the brain. Only after two days after my consciousness recovery and my pointing out the pain, they turned their attention to the spine and treatment rendered accordingly.

What the mystery is with my experience, I felt that I was immersed in the heavy bright light while falling and remained there only until I got consciousness. Only light and oneness with all or none-ness with any prevailed with my thought. The body feeling or physical feeling was not there. When I came to this world again, only the pains and other related physical thoughts came to me. To be frank I felt some stillness during the course of accident until awakening on the hospital bed. I still have the experience with my memory.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'During OCTOBER, 1994'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other FALLING FROM THE ROOF OF FOURTH FLOOR ROOF INTO CELLAR FLOOR IN LIFT DUCT  Fell fifty feet.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While falling from the roof to cellar of apartment (maximum twenty seconds).

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that there was light, bright light all around and over, and I felt that I was also a part of it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was detached from all the physical matters.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing of the physical world's sounds till I got consciousness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I felt a sudden flash through a narrow tunnel and I was absorbed in it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is bright. Crystal clear.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes it light spread all over

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotions. No feelings. No pains and gains. Stillness in bright light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I AM A HINDU BY RELIGION AND BELIEVE IN GOD

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   STILL THE SAME. I am HINDU

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Afterwards I started seeing trying myself in all things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The special gift I got is I could realize or got experience of oneness among all the existing things of universe.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I realized the oneness of the universe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is a God's gift or self-realization opportunity.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. God is one. All are equal. Religions are only ladders for knowledge but not ultimate. One should realize himself as all. One should feel pain when the other experiences the same. One should think that all came from one and goes to one.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You better ask questions or facilitate to provide questions in Regional Languages of India and Asia.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gp_fde.html