{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gordy_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Gordy K NDE 3744","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gordy K NDE 3744  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gordy K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1743 Gordy K NDE 3744  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself outside my body. Unlike previous out-of-body 'dreams' where I had a body and could 'swim' through the air, this time there was no 'body'. There was only my awareness or presence, if you will, with a view of the room from near the ceiling. I wasn't directly over the gurney and could see the backs of the doctors and nurses on my side of the gurney. My view of the gurney was mostly blocked by their backs.  The overhead light fixture in the room blocked my view of the people on the other side of me.

I was fully aware that was my body on the gurney; however, there was a 'lack of concern' on my part (not to mention a total lack of the pain and discomfort I was in before I began my experience) and soon lost interest on what was happening to my body. I looked around behind me, saw the cupboards on the wall, and read some of the labels on the doors describing the contents behind the doors. They were Dymo-labels popular back then. The cupboards and room dissolved away to blackness with a bright light in what would have been the corner in the back of the cupboard. It began to increase in size as though I was moving closer to it, however before the light took over I found myself back in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was on a hospital gurney with four people surrounding me, two on a side. One person was barking orders, one was calling out stats. They started to intubate me through my mouth when I heard someone say 'He's going into . . .'  The rest of the sentence was unintelligible. Then some more orders barked, then I heard someone say, 'Bag him.' Then a mask was placed over my face. Not sure how long it all lasted but that's the last thing I remember before my experience started.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Consistent through out the experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Consistent through out the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered space yes, the room had disappeared.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound at all. As though I was deaf. Just my thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When the room faded away and the light appeared I remember thinking it's a tunnel, although afterwards days later I wasn't sure it was a tunnel or just a growing light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A small point of light appeared and grew in size. The sensation was like walking down a dark tunnel towards the opening at the end. As you get closer the light grows in size. Either a tunnel or the light was just getting larger relative to me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Jewish

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Jewish

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain My relationships have changed although not as a direct result of the experience, but more because the experience changed me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me several months before I mentioned it to anyone. I spent most of that time deciding what it was I experienced and how it fits my beliefs. It seems that people generally accept what I tell them sometimes with a bit of skepticism. Sometimes they'll ask if what I believe I experienced was proof of life after death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only what has been discussed in general in the media.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I had always felt that there is a scientific explanation for these experiences and while I experienced it for myself it was still inconclusive as to whether it is real or not. Consider that I was awake (although under a lot of discomfort and distress) and my sub-conscious took notice of the room before I 'blacked out'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      Pretty much the same.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gordy_k_nde.html