{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gordon_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Gordon M NDE 3905","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gordon M NDE 3905  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gordon M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1850 Gordon M NDE 3905  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After I was shot, I ran about a hundred yards. It was right after midnight. Nobody would stop to help, so I laid down in the middle of the street. I saw myself lying on the ground with people around me. I knew I was going to die. My life did not flash before me like a movie or images. 

I experienced the following, with complete clarity and comprehension.  Instantly, I was aware of every negative interaction with other human beings in my life. I knew if I remained where I was, I would feel and experience every harmful thing that I had caused others knowingly or not in my life.  It was very frightening because the collective emotional pain was overwhelming. I somehow sensed that I was given a choice to go back. I prayed sincerely for the first time in my life.  It was simple, I promised to be the best person I could be.

The next awareness I had was looking in the faces of two men over me, they were Fire Department paramedics, I asked one of them (very adamantly) if I was going to die, told him to tell me the truth because I was trying to make my peace with God. His answer was he did not know, but if they could (with my help) keep me alive long enough to get to the hospital the doctors would do their best. He told me they had to keep me from losing consciousness and going into deep shock, I lost five pints of blood before reaching the hospital but stayed conscious and did not go into deep shock. 

I was in surgery for four hours, I got hit with four shotgun pellets each the size of a .32 caliber bullet, two in the abdomen, one in the chest and one in my upper right arm. The surgeons told my parents and siblings that (I was in intensive care) if I regained consciousness they needed to see me immediately because they did not think I was going to make it. When I came to my father and brother were standing at the foot of the bed, they looked very, very distraught because they thought I was going to die - I knew I wasn't - I told them I was going to live, because I knew I was. I was in the hospital for thirty-one days, three more surgeries because of infections, then three months of healing and rest.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 26th 1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Other Victim of violent crime-Shotgun blast close range-

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was out of body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I was looking down at the scene and realized it was me on the ground.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the out of body my hearing seemed magnified, there was a clarity I have rarely experienced since.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It seemed that I was in a dark place but within a close proximity there was something or someone and a light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt something or someone was there, it seemed I was given a choice to stay or go back.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was almost like I felt the light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of sadness because of my total lack of caring how my actions had affected others and the knowledge of complete self centeredness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was infused instantly with the knowledge that my life to that point had been only about me with no regard for others, I learned that to love and respect others and all human beings is really what brings true success in life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know God works through people, his spark of love is equal in every human being and it is up to each human being to accept or reject it, I also believe he does not judge us, he leaves that to us to judge ourselves.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know God works through people, his spark of love is equal in every human being and it is up to each human being to accept or reject it, I also believe he does not judge us, he leaves that to us to judge ourselves.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have come to know there is a God and we are all very important to him and his greatest gift to us is free will.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I truly care about people and respect them as human beings; I also believe they are loved by God unconditionally, and gives us free will.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have a sense of wellbeing, and gratefulness for my relationships with others, I do not want to die right now, but I am not afraid of death, I believe when it comes this time I will be comfortable with it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowledge and acceptance that the most import thing when dealing with others is to consider how my actions affect them, not how my actions effect me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About ten years after, I have shared with others, reactions differ, depends on the person.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It was real but hard to accept, I buried it for a while.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reality is I have become a better human being, have a strong belief in God and his unconditional love.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   There have been moments of clarity in my life during difficult times and situations to be still and let God do my work for me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gordon_m_nde.html