{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1goldy_nde.html","mytitle":"Goldy NDE 64","mylang":"de"}
          	        Goldy NDE 64  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Goldy NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1493 Goldy NDE 64  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My older cousin and mother used to choke me until I lost consciousness. The events in the order they happened were as follows:

1. Strangled.

2. Intense fear.

3. Lost consciousness.

4. Saw myself riding on the back of a large, female cougar.

5. Could feel the muscles of the cougar, its warmth, and movement.

6. Could see what I was leaving but not where we were going.

7. Regained consciousness.

8. Very calm and peaceful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1950-1956

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         My older cousin and my mother repeatedly strangled me until I lost consciousness.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I left my physical self-involved in the event, but looked like myself -- except from an observation of myself and then from my eyes out.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Lost physical consciousness. But very aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The events after I lost consciousness, seemed to take place at a leisurely pace, but it must have been only seconds.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noise, but that seemed natural.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Was going toward an 'openness' or field.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The large, female cougar. Yes, I knew her, even though I hadn't met her. There are cougars where I grew up, but this one was there for me.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Well, the cougar is beautiful. Stunning. Like a guide, sort of.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear during strangling. Disassociation from that event. Comfort when the cougar arrived. Safe. Secure. Protected. Calm and peaceful when returned.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     No fear of dying. Absolute certainty in God. Respect for everyone/thing is essential. Compassion to the point of extreme empathy. We each have a purpose. We are all given a gift(s). We know much when we're born but loose it through socialization. I will KNOW some things are so without evidence and I need to trust those truths. There are people who choose evil and they are excluded in afterlife from the link love bridges between the two worlds. I will know many things but not how I know them. There is a 'feeling' attached to positives and one attached to negatives. I can bet chills from someone I can't see through a door and have no knowledge of. I can sense others like me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     1. How to control my breathing. (Breathe through my skin.)  2. How to keep from burning.  3. How to slow my loss of blood.  4. How to slow my metabolism.  5. How to not feel the cold so much.  6. How to hypnotize others when they touch areas that I fear so they become very drowsy.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I can tell if certain people are going to call me with one hundred percent accuracy. I KNOW I was to make films. I know people before I meet them. In my dreams we interact.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Too young to know.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Only that it was incredible/unbelievable to others and that there weren't words that described the situation fully.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was very young, so I can't say whether or not prior. But I am empathic, can visualize a letter in my head and my sister will call it or vice versa. I sense warmth in certain stones. I trust my instincts in everything I do: driving paths, all sorts of choices.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing my cougar is always there for me and the security she provides me. The worst was, of course, the fear associated with the strangulation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People tell me I'm 'angelic', 'calm', 'peaceful' and what my secret is. I tell them I'm very spiritual. I am reluctant to mention NDE due to the circumstances (people tell me what I wonderful mother I had -- maybe she was to them). They say, 'you don't mean that' or get a weird look on their face and back off. Only those who've had the same experience understand and embrace what I'm saying. One is a close friend and the other is my youngest sister. We seem to enjoy people, appreciate each person's worth. And not take our time for granted.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It seems to have made me a sage or wise person -- almost like a different species. I'm human, with normal concerns -- but understand a lot of things others don't. Some say genius. That would also apply to the two others I know who've had near death experiences.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your instructions are far too long. I think we are not comfortable wasting time on the details, but want to spend it doing what we need to do. Also I can't see what I typed on the right side -- so how can I make sure there are no typos?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1goldy_nde.html