{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1goldie_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Goldie J NDE 328","mylang":"de"}
          	        Goldie J NDE 328  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Goldie J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1367 Goldie J NDE 328  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a hospital delivery room; I was surrounded by doctors and nurses. Someone in the same room was screaming; I was disturbed by it. I know this because I heard a nurse remark to that effect. Before I went to the delivery room, I was thrashing around; I heard a nurse say, 'She's suffering, but, she doesn't know it.' I was tied down in the delivery room; I don't know why except I was in such distress and so confused, although I was alert. I think they gave me something at that time to calm me because I seem to remember remarking about the nurse's nails, in a calm manner. But that does not make sense; she would have had gloves on? I began to feel some panic, which was increasing.  As I looked up at all the doctors, I said to them, 'I can't breathe; don't you understand me? I can't breathe!' I remember them all just looking at me, doing nothing, just staring.

Then, I felt myself slipping away into a black, warm tunnel; I was going backwards not forwards. It was like falling back into a nice, cushiony warm place. It was comfortable and an Ahhh! Feeling, like all my problems and pain were forever gone. I have fainted before but it did not feel like this. This was a good feeling.

The next thing I remember, I was in another room and my primary doctor was standing over me saying, 'You stopped breathing; you nearly died. We had to bring you back.' I just said to her, 'Well, I didn't die, did I?' The next day one of the other doctors came into my room and said: 'Do you remember the delivery room?' and I told him I did not; I didn't want to talk about what had happened. I felt I could not talk about it. He said it was good I couldn't remember. He asked if I was going to breast feed; I said no, I didn't want to. He said that was good because I had a rough time and it would be too exhausting for me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 25, 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death I was told I stopped breathing  Stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don't think I had a separation that I remember but I felt as though I was slipping away.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Alert, anxious and conscious until the tunnel and then I was totally relaxed and comfortable.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I seemed to be in a different type of reality, without time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The tunnel was muffled and soft black.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A soft black and warm tunnel; not a suffocating enclosure but a soft warmth effusion of peace.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relief, happiness.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think that death is a good thing; a release of all the misery and pain on this earth.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was being released from pain and suffering; worst part was waking up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some say drugs caused this reaction. Some choose to see it as sinister (no bright light). Some stare in disbelief. Some just stare.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have no fear of death; I tell people it will be okay.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's okay!    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1goldie_j_nde.html