{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glynis_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Glynis W Probable NDE 7461","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glynis W Probable NDE 7461  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glynis W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3805 Glynis W Probable NDE 7461  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					August 1, 1991, I was having 1650 cc’s of fluid removed from my right lung through my back by thoracentesis hooked up to a pump. I was sitting up in a chair with some sort of bar for which I could lean. As the fluid was being removed, I felt a strange pressure in the brain stem, and then around my heart. My body went limp; my shoes fell off as I started to sweat profusely. 

I heard the surgeon talking about removing the tube as a bright light appeared up and off to the right. There was a peaceful feeling and I knew I would go to heaven. I was rushed out of that room and put on my bed. As my mother rushed to my side, the nurses took my blood pressure. My mother yelled out, '70/30.' Although I was lying on the bed, I could see my mother talking to my doctor in the doorway as he told her, 'I hope we can get her back!'

That is the last thing I remember until waking up with a team of doctors around me and I was soaking wet. The nurses kept asking me after the experience if I saw a tunnel or people.  I knew who had passed on. I did not.  But strange things started happening. I called my grandmother after entering the hospital and told her I was in trouble. She took the pray warriors in order to fast and pray for me that it wasn't cancer. It turned out to be endometriosis. [Editor’s note: Endometriosis is the abnormal growth of cells similar to those that form inside the uterus, but in a location outside the uterus.] 

I was discharged from the hospital on August 28, 1991, and arrived at my grandmother's house. She told me that she asked God to take her if he needed another soldier in heaven and leave me here to be a help to the nation. She had a cerebral hemorrhage the next day. She had informed everyone at church Sunday, before I arrived, that she was going home on Thursday.  

February 9, 1998, in South Korea: My right lung collapsed (hemopneumothorax) and my chest tube suction became disconnected while traveling back from a CAT scan at the army hospital, two hours away. A severe blizzard caused emergency road conditions. As I became progressively more short of breath, we began to hear a strange noise, but could not find anything wrong. I began to panic as I gasped for breath. Up on the glass cabinet in the ambulance, I saw the wings of my guardian angel. I heard the words, 'Relax, don’t panic, relax.' As I relaxed, I realized it was not the technician talking. Many wondered how I survived out there. I know it was an angel.  

My last NDE was in May 30, 2002. I had a full tension pneumothorax, decompression of my chest, two minutes from death but I never lost consciousness. But the situation surrounding the event was very strange. I realized I had been chosen by God to deliver the message about Catamenial Pneumothorax. My purpose became clear. [Editor’s Note: Catamenial Pneumothorax is the most common form of thoracic endometriosis syndrome.]

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/1/91; 2/9/98; 5/30/2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Collapsed lung with fluid in the chest and abdomen, thought initially to be an ovarian malignancy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The facts have been checked out  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was a knowing, no hesitation.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up, the doctors were standing over me asking if I knew what happened to me, and I replied ‘I went into shock but I am coming all the way back’.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The bright light was in the first room. When they moved me to my bed things started happening around me quickly, but I was watching my mother because, although, I knew I would make it into heaven, I hated to die and leave my mother and sister in San Antonio.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     After the first experience I had a very vivid dream about my next duty station, and was sent there after I healed. After my tension pneumothorax in 2002, my vision changed to a state that I no longer needed contacts or glasses after wearing them for 31 years.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear and see my mother talking to the doctor at the door, but I was looking down at them from above. My hearing now is super sensitive. I can hear things from very far away. Works well if someone is whispering about you.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright, up and off to the right. It pulls you toward it and I knew I would make it into heaven. An unusually bright light: Unearthly light.  I had heard about the bright light, but not entirely sure I believed it existed until I saw it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace and bewilderment. There was no fear. I also felt relief or calmness and Happiness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My past flashed before me, out of my control.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     After the first NDE I would have dreams about my future and they came true. I dreamed about a place with ships and water and was sent there and lived on the base. I dreamed the cover of my book and knew it would go into every country. I dreamed by best friend was swerving in a black jeep and very scared. I was still in Korea and she had returned to the states. I called her and she was in the emergency room and had just wrecked her black jeep grand Cherokee, which I knew nothing about.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was raised very strict Pentecostal and became non-denominational when I left home at age 17.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I feel that God chose me to deliver a message to women with issues of blood.  That is why my Catamenial pneumothoracies resulted in me becoming a help to the nation which is what was prayed over me at birth.  I pray every day and thank God for his guidance and have been recently told I now have the first book on pulmonary endometriosis and many women globally are being diagnosed.  I feel the presence of the angels.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had heard about the bright light, but not entirely sure I beleived it existed until I saw it.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was raised very strict Pentecostal and became non-denominational when I left home at age 17. I believe the angels are guiding me and protecting me. I am happy and fulfilled in my spiritual relationship. I feel that God chose me to deliver a message to women with issues of blood. That is why my Catamenial pneumothoraces resulted in me becoming a help to the nation, which is what was prayed over me at birth. I pray every day, thank God for his guidance.  I was recently told that I now have the first book on pulmonary endometriosis and many women globally are being diagnosed. I feel the presence of the angels. There is nothing you cannot do with God’s help and never underestimate a person who overestimates themselves. An afterlife definitely exists. The bright light pulls you toward it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   In 1998 I am sure it was an Angel that came to help me. The voice was in my spirit, because the tech did not hear it.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     When my grandmother pray warrior died, I realized I had be handed a big mission.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     In Feb 1998 an Angel came to help me survive.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew my purpose was to serve others, but in a special way that would involve nations.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The bright light pulls you toward it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     There is a lot of suffering that can be healed.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     You get an awareness that you are truly loved and there is nothing you can not do.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life; I have a strong sense of the spirit world including feeling a presence sometimes. I think about angels, and am guided into situations, which help others that are incredible. My eyes weep when I go to church and I have dreams of     Large changes in my life; I have a strong sense of the spirit world including feeling a presence sometimes. I think about angels, and am guided into situations, which help others that are incredible. My eyes weep when I go to church and I have dreams of much bigger things to come.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I Love more and have much more compassion with a stronger desire to help others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The bright light and peaceful feeling I would make it into heaven during the first experience. The second was a true miracle.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a gift of knowledge and healing. Although many had never heard of pulmonary endometriosis and those that had thought it was extremely rare. I knew with conviction it was unrecognized and under diagnosed. I had no fear in telling the world and now many have realized I was right. But this has a spiritual aspect that deals with the nameless woman with an issue of blood in the Bible who touched the hem of Jesus’ garment and was made whole. I have the healing- anointing since my NDE, also.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is significant that everything that happened to me was to move me into my purpose.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started sharing it right away. I wrote a small amount of it in my book to enlighten the nation about pulmonary endometriosis.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I worked in pediatrics when I was 18-22 years old, and some of the very sick children would talk about seeing relatives that had passed. Most did not live very long after having those experiences.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I became very sensitive to entities around me in my hospital room after the experience. When I left the hospital, my thought process was different.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has been an incredible journey and I am currently moving to the next step in delivering God’s message.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   About six months ago I had a dream that I was in my kitchen being carried by a man in white who had a bright light for his face. I was looking at him holding me and my head was back and my hands down, as if I was dead. All of a sudden, something said clearly in my left ear ‘Turn your hands up’, and I woke up. I finally found out the meaning.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is a lot of suffering that can be healed. You get awareness that you are truly loved and there is nothing you cannot do. My NDE's became more important than other experiences occurring at the time. It seems to bring you closer to the spirit world after the occurrence. I recently found out ‘Pneuma’ means Holy Spirit. Pneumothorax is the Holy Spirit in the lungs. My Catamenial pneumothorax helped me gain knowledge from the Holy Spirit? Many things are unfolding.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You did not ask if you ever saw people that had died before your NDE. April of 1997 when I arrived in Alabama for Commissioned officers training, I was given a position as student operations group commander, which meant one of my duties was to lock the doors at night. The first night, while I was downstairs alone, a woman walked out of the darkness in her mess dress and said ‘I am going to our dining room’ and I responded ‘I am trying to lock the doors’. She walked into a bathroom and never came out. I went upstairs and grabbed the support group commander to help me lock the back rooms and as we walked down the hall with our flashlights, we were greeted with a burst of perfume. She was so scared we had to go back and get reinforcements. But I was not afraid for some reason, and my mother told me, there was a reason she appeared to me. Maybe the problem had already started again with my lung.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glynis_w_probable_nde.html