{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gloria_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Gloria M Possible NDE 6353","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gloria M Possible NDE 6353  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gloria M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3124 Gloria M Possible NDE 6353  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It arose from a tonsil operation. In those days, they used a gas anesthetic applied through a facemask. Everything happened quickly, I lost consciousness.

Then I felt and saw myself going through a tunnel at great speed, stopping at the end of it. There was a space or city, and a big lake preventing me going further. I was very scared, terrified, I could see no one. I wanted to go home to my parents and my house. I did not go back through the tunnel in reverse; I just woke up crying out for my parents and weeping. 

Subsequently, I was quite affected by the experience. I told my parents about it but they paid no attention. When I was small, just a few months old, I was in a coma, with sepsis, but I have no memory of anything like this. I have had other operations and have never had anything similar. Also it's true that I have never again had an anesthetic gas through a mask again, but different types of sedation or anesthesia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963-65

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.  'intervención quirugica, amigdelectomia + intervencion adenoides'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I think not, but cannot be certain.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My level of consciousness was different, as well as the movement of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the landscape and lake at the end of the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I can't describe it; I believe the passage through the tunnel was very quick. I don't know how long the operation was but I guess it would not be more than twenty or thirty minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I cannot be precise, it was very real and I visualized it very well.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm not sure.  I can be sure that I can now hear frequencies which are not normally heard by others.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A black, very black, tunnel, dark and shadowy, but I went through it very quickly.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I felt really lonesome.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, terror, solitude... I was a child having an operation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     At the end of the tunnel I stopped, and seeing a big lake: calm and of a very fine blue. It was daytime, but seemed like a cloudy day. It made me very sad and scared. To be able to go on, I had to cross the lake, which limited me considerably.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As I said, I stopped when I came to the end of the tunnel, did not cross that border. Something told me I should not.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Maybe, but I have always been extremely curious and spiritual. From childhood I believed in another life, spirits, and angels.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     era una niña, aquello no lo entendí bien.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was a child and did not understand it very well. If it is so, it would be imprinted in my unconscious, as I was a child.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A different place at the end of a tunnel. At the other side there was a different universe.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my eart   hly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     I don't believe I could consciously explain them, so I don't know. What I am convinced of is that there is another dimension different from our own.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For a child it is something unusual and you don't understand it at all.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Durante mucho tiempo me he acordado de ese sueño , no lo olvido. Tampoco olvido la tristeza de ese lago al final del tunel y como decidí no atravesarlo, sentí un miedo impresionante. Creo que no oí ninguna voz, pero no estoy segura, creo que yo pensaba en voz alta o hablaba conmigo misma, diciendome que queria irme de allí lo mas deprisa posible. No recorrí el tunel en sentido inverso pues me desperté gritando y llorando.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Maybe, I'm not sure. It could be I've always had them; from being small and before the experience I've had some premonitions, premonitory dreams, and telepathy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The speed through the tunnel was incredible and the darkness too. I knew it was a tunnel when I got to the end and saw the other side. There was a big lake and that is what stopped me. The light on the lake was not bright, but very faint. I was terrified and I remember waking up calling for my parents, shouting and weeping.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think I told my parents, but they gave it no importance at all.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I thought it was a dream, until many years later I learned about such experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know if it was to do with the anesthetic they gave me for the operation. What I'm clear about is that I was in another frequency and entering another different dimension from that of the surgery, and perhaps this was a really vivid dream.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Some will say it could have been the effects of anesthesia, but I have had other operations and never had a similar experience. I believe it was also very mechanical or physical. I felt myself moving very rapidly through a very long tunnel. I was terrified. Now that I'm grown up, I believe I saw something, but I was not really dead, just having a tonsillectomy. When I went under, I believe I left my body and went to another dimension.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       1) Consideration of the age of the experience-r, as for a child it is difficult to describe it.  2) Comparison of cases in children.   3) Study of why these experiences happen when there is no threat of death, in a surgical intervention.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gloria_m_possible_nde.html