{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gloria_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Gloria M NDE 2158","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gloria M NDE 2158  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gloria M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						586  Gloria M NDE  2158  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  As the mask was placed on my face I could see medication being injected into the line on my arm. The next thing I knew it was dark and I was afraid. Suddenly I was shooting down a tunnel. There were golden lights shining so bright, like squares or a mesh all around, I was going so fast, yet knew I wouldn't crash into anything. I remember thinking to myself, 'I'm in the matrix' (Why that word I don't know) 'I'm dying.' At the end, I saw a bright light with a slightly darker circle in it and my body began to slow down.

Suddenly I was standing in front of a massive being, an Angel I think. The beautiful white wings were stretched out. It was so big I couldn't see the face or head. Suddenly the wings began to close around me and I heard a voice saying, 'Don't be afraid, we will hold you until it is all over. You are going to be all right. We will stay with you and hold you.' As the wings closed around me, I was filled with white light that made my heart soar. I wasn't afraid it seemed to envelope me completely. I felt so peaceful and unafraid, so full of joy that I didn't want to leave. I don't remember anything else until I came to in the intensive care unit on the ventilator.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 21 st October 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      I was on A ventilator in ITU  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was on a ventilator in ITU.  I had a chest infection which had triggered a severe asthma attack, as my body shut down in the resuscitation room I became hypoxic and experienced 'Silent Chest' where there is no longer any wheeze to be heard as air is not getting in or out of the lungs. I was taken to the intensive therapy unit where I was placed on a ventilator 'life support' machine.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was as if everything made sense to me and nothing else in the world mattered anymore. I knew I was ill yet was unafraid and ready to accept whatever happened, in fact wanting whatever to happen.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was paralyzed and sedated from the intubation.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I don't know how long I was away for but I didn't come back until a few hours before I was taken off the ventilator which was quite a few hours.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was in a different reality from life. My husband and daughter said that when they had visited me my eyes were open but 'there was no-one at home.' I don't even remember seeing them at all.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear noises and voices in the background as doctors and nurses worked on me but I felt as If I wasn't there although I knew my body was.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I think it was an angel. It told me not to be afraid as they would hold me until it was all over and that I was going to be alright.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A brilliant white light at the end of the tunnel and when the wings enveloped me I became part of the white light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnell was like a Matrix of bright golden lights kriss crossed all around as if there was more in them, I couldn't see  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, happy, unafraid, sadness when I had to return.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None - although I was raised as a Roman Catholic and left the faith.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I don't know what to believe anymore. In some ways, I want to go to church and start again but I don't believe that it is the church that is the way. Do I believe in God etc., I don't know. But I believe there is something after death now and that this is not the end. Everything will make sense to me when I die as it did on that day.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Unsure  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I don't know what to believe anymore. In some ways, I want to go to church and start again but I don't believe that it is the church that is the way. Do I believe in God etc., I don't know. But I believe there is something after death now and that this is not the end. Everything will make sense to me when I die as it did on that day.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It was as if I knew the place was where I should be. That I was safe and that this was as it should be.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am more at peace. I don't get so worked up about petty little things, and I am not so critical of others. When I am hurt by things people do or say I can tell myself to let it go, it doesn't matter anymore.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was so beautiful, I didn't want to come back. I find it difficult to describe the wonderful colors I saw and the powerful emotions I was feeling.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The nurse in the intensive care unit. She thought it was a beautiful story and said that I was the second person in intensive care to have seen an angel.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so real I was shaken by it. I couldn't get it out of my mind and kept going over and over it. I couldn't seem to forget it. I wanted to tell everyone I met but was afraid of ridicule.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still can't get it out of my head. I have since told others. Some have laughed others have envied me. One patient I told recently when I was back in hospital gave me a medallion of an angel and said the biggest angel was called Raph'l. I still believe something happened but I don't know what.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gloria_m_nde.html