{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gloria_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Gloria G NDE 1099","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gloria G NDE 1099  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gloria G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						538  Gloria G NDE  1099  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I went through a tunnel and arrived in a garden.  I walked with a very beautiful man who gave me counsel.  I looked at him in his essence and did not understand how such a beautiful, good, and intelligent person could be interested in me.  He spoke to me, but I do not remember what he said.  Perhaps his words are engraved in my soul.  The curious thing is that he didn't make me feel guilty.  I had attempted suicide and he spoke to me as if I had made an unimportant mistake and he counseled me to do better.  As I spoke to him, we walked along and soon he told me go and join with a group of people.  Even though I didn't want to leave him, I obeyed.


I then went with these people.  They were a group of young people dressed in white.  I only remember that they were women, I don't remember if there were any men.  Everything was in a park.  There was a gentle breeze and the grass moved with the breeze.  The sun was shining brightly and lit up the plants and birds that were flying around.  I was seated on the grass with the women but beside me was a hole, a well, a hollow place...I don't know how to describe it.  I felt very happy being with the women.  We communicated without words through our spirits.  It was like being joined in great peace and happiness.  But my words are inadequate to describe all this because in this earth life I never experienced such a feeling.


After being together in this way a force pushed me toward the hole or well.  I grabbed onto the rim of the well with all my strength because something was pulling me downward.  As I ran out of strength to hold myself back, I held out my hands so the women could catch me, bring me back up, and not let me fall down or go into the hole.  But they just waved goodbye to me.  I yelled to them not to let me go (‘If you are good, why don't you give me your hands?  I want to be with you.’)  But something kept pulling me down and I kept going down the tunnel until I opened my eyes and found myself in this world.  I felt cold.  I did not like this reality and began screaming that I wanted to return to where I had been… 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1964

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt     intento de suicidioI tried to commit suicide by shooting myself.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  This happened to me, but in another situation.  Two other times.  I saw what they were doing to me.  Also, at another time, I experienced being in a sort of a prison.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It seemed real.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I went away in a tunnel and returned in a tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They appeared to me and we conversed, but I don’t remember what we talked about.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was in a park with trees, birds, sunshine, a breeze, and people.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I received special knowledge.  I don’t remember but I think that it is engraved into my soul.  I do know what the purpose of this life is.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw scenes from my life but I don’t remember.  I learned over time that we are visiting this life, we are here to learn, and that the best is yet to come after this life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not want to return to this life.  I felt very well being there.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   ninguna

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   iglesia mormona   a los 26 anos experimente la presencia de seres sobrenaturales y de intenso brillo lo cual me guio ha esta iglesia

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Sometime after the events of this experience.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have some kind of gift.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I felt well there with good friends.  The worst part was returning to this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Different things to different people.  Generally, I recount my experience to someone who is going through a hard time to give strength for continuing on with what life has given.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I had other experiences on other occasions.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gloria_g_nde.html