{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenna_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenna C NDE 5367","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenna C NDE 5367  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenna C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2826 Glenna C NDE 5367  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had open heart surgery, and even though I had died on the table, and even though things were just not feeling right to me, I was sent home.  The next morning, my husband had to go to work, so I stayed in bed.  I guess something woke me up – and then after a few minutes, I had this really sharp pain.  It was just not going away – I could not even breathe.  I'm telling you, this pain was so great that I knew I was having a heart attack!!!  I could not even reach the phone to call for help. ‘This is it,’ I thought.  ‘I'm going to die here by myself.’   The pain was getting worse and worse, and soon I could not even breathe.  Then there was this really bright light.  I had never seen anything like it before!  It was so soft!  I was drawn to it.  I remember there was this guy whose face I could not see.  I knew him, and he knew who I was.  As I looked around, I saw people sitting in this room that was like a tunnel.  They all knew who I was, but I didn't know them.  Either that or I could not tell who they were, for they had no faces, or maybe their faces were just in shadow from the bright light.  They were talking to me, asking me questions, asking me why don't I just stay here – but I told them that I had too many things to take care of.  I said that I had people that needed me and were counting on me, and I just could not stay.  Then the guy asked me if I was sure, I didn't want to stay there.  I said no – but, I must say, I had never felt as peaceful as I felt there – so happy.  Hearing these people talking, I felt like I was home – like I was a child again.

Then the guy told me that I really was not ready to be there.  He said that I had something to do, and when I do it, I will come back here and be home again.  I asked him, ‘What is it that I am supposed to do?’  He did tell me, but I can't remember what it was, except that it was important that I do it.  I really hated to leave such a peaceful place!  And, Oh! – The light was still there!  It had never gone away since I had arrived there. This happened to me a few years ago.  Since then, I've had breast cancer and have died again – 4 times – on the operating table.  ONE of those times, I saw that light again, but it was like only for a minute, and I was back again.  To this day, I still remember it so clearly, like it was yesterday.  I can even remember the guy's voice.  I've thought about this so many times, asking myself whether this could have been just a dream.  (Oh, yes, and that day that I had a heart attack and was rushed to the hospital—I  was there for about 2 weeks.) I guess I still have not done whatever I am supposed to do.  But I do know that I *will* be home again...and at peace.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 13 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related.  I had an open heart surgery which I had died on the table!  Other I had an open heart surgery had  died  on the table and but that was not the first time !

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't remember ever having consciousness until I came to and was being worked on...

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't remember having consciousness at all, until I came to and was being worked on...

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Well, it did seem like a long time, but I knew it was only a few minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have tried so many times to explain what the bright light was like. I know my colors well, for I also paint, and yet I still cannot come close to being able to describe the light I saw.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    For it was like I could hear them, yet I could not see them talk...and their voices were very soft.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a big soft room shaped like a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did. They even talked to me like family would. I still could not see their faces. Yet in some way I knew them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy and at peace. I have never felt like that again...

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Very much, for the beliefs I always had are against anything like this, so I am always fighting with myself about it!!

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Very much, for the beliefs I always had are against anything like this, so I am always fighting with myself about it!!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told that there was something that I had to do.  Even though I can't remember what it was, I do know that when I get it done, I will be back there.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My husband now, through the years, has come to believe that what happened to me was real, for I see many things now that I never did before.  Some have come to pass. Even all my family and friends believe me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Nowadays I just know that some things are going to happen, and they do!  But I feel that it is so very wrong to do this.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, I still wonder if it was just a dream. But I know that the pain was not a dream!  I do remember, so strongly, how peaceful it was. I knew that for me, it was home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told everyone – first I told my husband.  He believes me now, forever since my experience, when I tell him that things are going to happen, they do. I just don't understand everything yet, or why these things come to me. Like the earthquake we had on the East Coast a couple of months ago – I kept telling him, 'Something is coming.' Some people believe me when I talk to them, and some people don't.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Even to this day I still remember everything about it, right down to the people and the light – everything.  All I know is that I didn't want to leave, and that I would be back. Most of all, I remember the feeling of completely being at peace and knowing I was home with family.  I know that people that I tell this to – well, some believe me and some don't, but all I know is – it did happen.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Never!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenna_c_nde.html