{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenna_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenna A NDE 4990","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenna A NDE 4990  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenna A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2574 Glenna A NDE 4990  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the time I had no idea I was pregnant. I had collapsed and someone drove me to the hospital. I was barely aware of where I was, could not move and was in great pain. I was suddenly outside my body watching my parents, sister and doctors talk about me and my possible condition and fixes. I was screaming this could not be happening.  Then, there was my deceased grandparents at my side. They were perfect and so was everything about the world. I was calmed immediately. They began to lead me through a void towards a light. I was not happy at all to be going the direction they wanted me to go. Closer to the light someone asked me if I wanted to go back. I knew I did and was going to go back. Suddenly I was again above my body in the hospital in a hallway being told by a doctor they were going to save me as they pushed the gurney into an operating room. The next thing I remember was waking up in recovery.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    ruptured ectopic pregnancy  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the time of seeing the scene from above to when I looked down again coming back into myself.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Things were happening instantaneously. A thought a communication and flash it was done without seemingly any effort.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The depth and dimensions were as one is the best way to explain it.  The void was there, the grandparents were just there.  The moving was effortless and the clarity of the reality of what was happening to my body and the choice I could make was instantaneous, like when I knew I wanted to go back poof I was there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only remember communications from inside my head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     There was a void where I then came to be with my grandparents and then we moved through a tunnel like, or rather towards a light, in the void/darkness.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased grandparents met with me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a big bright light like the sun but stronger but there was no issue with gazing at it or into it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was angry at first and as soon as the grandparents were there was complete calmness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     There was a place before we got fully to the light I was asked if I wanted to go back. It seemed to be a place where if I crossed on over with my grandparents and the other beings I would not be able to go back to my body.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist and now I believe in a Guiding Organizing Designing process - whatever that process may be. I am still not sure it is a entity as much a general energy of the universe.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist and now I believe in a Guiding Organizing Designing process - whatever that process may be. I am still not sure it is a entity as much a general energy of the universe.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Simply all was one and one was all.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being a part of the whole and knowing we are all here in the same position and to help one another.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I was able after three days of being heavy drugged out, hanging on to life. It was so fantastic and I was questioning everybody. My mother thought it must have been heaven.  She is very Christian. It seemed to deepen her sense of her religion and an afterlife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I found out about NDEs as soon as I could and have been asking and talking with people when it feels right and the people are receptive. Some people strictly believe it is a normal phenomenon of death of the brain and body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have talked with lots of people that have had the same experience or knew of someone that had a similar experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have talked with a veteran of the Korean War and he said his experience had some spirits that he thought to have been the people he killed in the war and they were like being mean to him as he first went over. He said he had expressed regret and sorrow with them immediately and they became friendly. I am greatly interested in the not so joyful/happy experiences people have had in NDEs. Surely this one man's story must be supported by others?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenna_a_nde.html