{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenn_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenn D NDE 16132","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenn D NDE 16132  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenn D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5215 Glenn D NDE 16132  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    AWAKENED IN THE DARKNESS – 1952  

  (I wanted to see the other side of life in terms I could relate for others.)  I hadn’t remembered much about the two weeks of special prayer conversations and what I had asked for just 2 years before.  A part of that special time did enter my mind at 12 years old when I knelt at the altar to be baptized just a couple of weeks before this eventful day.  

  Mother took me to a dentist to have three wisdom teeth extracted.  I was put to sleep for the procedure ‘and something, so it seemed, went wrong’.  Later, I would be told that my heart might have stopped and I was to stay in bed for a few days.  God used this out-of-body time in death experience #1 to give some of the answers to requests I made during those very special prayer conversations.  

  The consciousness of my spirit, and of my soul, left my body in the dentist chair, not awakening until my soul had floated into the darkness above the ceiling.  In this plan of God, vibration from what I later understood was a long pulley belt, awakened ‘me’ just as if awakening in our physical body.  I seemed to be alone and with my own thoughts to where I was in the darkness.  

  Slowly moving along the vibrating belt made me feel that I was moving at a high rate of speed, going through outer space.  There were 3 spherical lights ahead of me that I thought to be planets with what looked to be rivers and tributaries.  It seems that each time a tooth was extracted, it affected which light I was headed for.  After glancing away from the third light, I found that I had floated to the roof of the building and sunlight.  

  TOMMY WAS STILL GROWING IN THE AFTER-LIFE  

  The few moments I was on the roof were mostly very happy.  On the roofs arch behind me was Tommy, a childhood friend who had died five years before, after a fall from a bridge railing and onto rocks below.  He still looked one year younger than me, growing at the same rate that I had.  Tommy liked high places and that was a factor in his death.  He told me the name of the child that had been with him and the cause of death that I had not heard.  He said the people that he stayed with now let him play on roofs any time he wanted.  

  Even with the strangeness that I was noticing, I was rationalizing it and did not grasp the idea that both Tommy and I were ‘on the other side’ from the physical life.  I bounced up and down a couple of times, and it seemed I could float right off the edge of the roof if I wanted to and not fall.  

  Mother had asked Grandma to come with us, but she said her work was never done and she would stay home.  I had not seen much work to be done and was silently curious as to what else she could find to do.  With this newly found ability, I wondered what it would be like to float to my home six miles away and surprise Grandma while she worked.  

  SPIRIT (RE) JOINS SOUL IN FLIGHT  

  ((I had heard the expression of “Get control over your soul.”  I thought I couldn’t tame it if I couldn’t define literally just what the ‘soul’ was, so the next paragraph is the first with detail in these experiences.  Here, basically is a yearning soul and its discerning spirit:))  

  As if the mind of my spirit was in deep thought, I watched from my position in the spirit on the rooftop and saw my adventurous (detached) soul with its hearts desire at the edge of the roof, testing to see if it was possible to float off without falling.  My soul was so wanting with the thought that when I, in my position in the spirit, saw that my soul didn’t fall to the ground, ‘I’ in my spirit believed and (in less than a second) joined my soul, and went soaring toward home.  

  I surfed like the wind around trees and over walls.  Each time I slowed down, I would ‘believe’ it was time to put my foot to the ground to shove off again.  The thought, even before putting the foot down, was all it took to set me sailing again, speeding toward home just a few miles away.  

  For several seconds I was in the living room at home.  I watched Grandma move things on a table, then take a seat and look out the window.  Next, I heard Tommy saying that if I went too far, I would not be able to get back.  I started to ‘fly back the way I came’ just as a perturbed Tommy said, “Get back here now!”  

  With that, I ‘believed’ myself instantly back on the roof with Tommy.  He then suggested ‘going back in’.  Not realizing that I had stepped across the line of death, I thought he meant both of us should duck back into the building.  

  TOLD TO “GO BACK IN”  

  Taking Tommy’s advice and thinking he would follow, I simply ducked back through the roof and into the darkness of the attic.  In the light of the office below, I found myself slowly descending backward as if being taken toward the chair by an unseen angel.  

  As I was descending into the room, and floating toward my physical body, three people were working around the chair that held my body.  As soon as I went back into the body, my physical body awoke with my soul and spirit, ‘me’, already awake and now ‘activating’ my physical body.  

  When Mother and I returned home, I told Grandma of the things I had seen her doing, and she confirmed everything to Mother.  Grandma was unhappy with me, and soon moved away.  Years later I would see she received understanding of what had taken place and the design for my life.  She would play a part the next time this was to happen; but that would not be while her soul was in this world.  

  I was discouraged from talking about this experience, but just as in earlier miraculous things, then forgotten, I concluded that if this could happen to me the way it did and be so totally real, I would keep this in the back of my mind along with any other mysterious things that might happen in my life.  

  In the 1990’s I wrote down bits-and-pieces of the super-natural events that flashed through my mind.  When I pieced those notes together there were enough stories to remind me of what had happened just as had been discussed in the 1950 prayer conversations.  Thank You Lord for being with us!  

  For more information go to his website:  https://www.majormarvels.com/        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenn_d_nde.html