{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenn_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenn Possible NDE 7027","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenn Possible NDE 7027  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenn Possible NDE  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification Possible NDE  			            3534 Glenn Possible NDE 7027  		                		              		                			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Around the age of 15 my friends and I were experimenting with different drugs: pot, nitrous, LSD, mushrooms and alcohol. In this event that happened to me, a friend and I were sitting on his bed and inhaling nitrous oxide from a balloon. (Whatever you do, never do this, I could have easily died). When I inhaled the nitrous, I felt the effects of it immediately.  

It was as if my mind was about 3 feet away from my body, upwards and forward in the front of myself. I instantly knew how all my current decisions were affecting the people in my life and how everyone viewed me. It wasn't pretty. My drug abuse and how I was treating the family was very selfish.  It made people view me in a certain light. The experience out of body only lasted about 5 seconds if that much. It was almost like an all-knowing, but not of the entire universe or anything, only what I needed at the time. The experience made me really think about what I was doing to myself; and how what I said and did, really did affect the others in my life. Not just me. 

I was back in my body after that happened and my friend said 'dude, your lips are purple'. I do not think that either one of us, knew how close to leaving this physical world I actually came. I didn't say anything to my friend about what just happened, because I wasn't sure what happened myself. It took me years to grasp that what had happened as a life changing experience. I write this for you to read, so hopefully people will not make my mistake; and possibly learn that what we do in life, how we act, say, do, radiates all around us. Life is a very short journey that for some: isn't understood in time. I hope this can help others try to treat others with kindness and love, because we really don't know how other people feel, or what they have been through that makes them the way they are.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I overdosed myself on nitrous oxide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was an instant soberness from my drug induced state. Instant clarity of how my actions were affecting others.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my mind exited my skull.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It happened so fast that I didn't have time like some NDE or OBEs.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Too fast to realize hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, it was so fast. It was almost like the only reason for it was to teach me about myself.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Raised in a non-religious family, but taught that we should treat others how we would want to be treated. Taught that racsism is a nasty thing.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I never was religious. I feel fortunate to not have religion shoved down my throat at a young age. My parents let me make decisions on my own and gave me the freedom to 'free-think' for myself. What has changed is: I haven't changed in a long time.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I didn't think of these things before, I was young. Young people aren't really supposed to contemplate death or where we go afterward. As I got older is when I started looking into why I exist and where I will go afterward. I look into the night sky with amazement at what I see.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I have taught myself that what I wanted to be in this life is a person who others can trust and depend on to help them. I enjoy material possessions for what they are, they do not define who I am, nor will they change me into someone I do not want to be. In the end all we will have is who we loved and how we treated others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I do not waste time trying to change anyone, if they see good things in someone that they like, and they want to be like that, it is up to them to take the steps to be who they want to be.    

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I tend to have vivid dreams that have answered questions for me. I recently had a dream (I will spare the details) but I asked a woman if life was eternal. She said 'no'. I had a very disappointed look on my face and then she said 'only if you know yourself'. Then I woke up.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The event was a part of my life that was shameful because what I was doing to trigger it was not something of which to be proud.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years went by and I didn't say anything because I really didn't think about it much. It wasn't until, in certain company and the topic was being discussed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't think about it much, I was young and much too involved with the 'important' things us kids were doing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view it as an experience that was 'what I needed': Nothing more or nothing less. It was as if I unlocked a side of me for a few brief seconds that showed me a problem I was creating that would change my life if I didn't stop.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Don't do man-made drugs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenn_possible_nde.html