{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenda_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenda Probable NDE 6553\/5112","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenda Probable NDE 6553/5112  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenda Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2651 Glenda Probable NDE 6553/5112  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6553  					</p>  					I was sitting in my chair at the computer.  All of a sudden, I felt a strong, deep, sharp pain in my chest.  I grabbed my chest and cried, 'Ow.'  All I remember after that is everything around me went black.  

It took me a few seconds to focus and get my bearings, and when I finally did, the only thing that came into view was the microwave oven, which was about three to four feet away from my chair.  That was it.  That was all I could see.  I remember having no body weight.  I felt as light as a feather, as though I were floating.  I remember thinking that I felt weird, - very odd, because I had no body weight whatsoever, nor any emotion at all.  No fear, no pain, no sadness.  

It was a bit confusing, and I was not so certain I liked feeling that way.  I use the word 'feeling,' but at the same time, I cannot recall having any emotions at all.  I was free of my body and free of any emotion.  Then I remember thinking that I didn't like being in the dark and, the next thing I knew, I was in a grey place.  

All I saw there was one man, sitting on what looked like the top of some stairs or on the edge of a ledge of some sort.  His brown hair was semi-long.  He was wearing what looked like a grey sackcloth, loose garment of some sort.  His back was to me.  I heard him mumbling something, and I could tell he had something in his hands that he was trying to do something with.  He seemed agitated, to say the least.  All of a sudden, he whipped his head around and looked at me with this not-so-happy look on his face. It was almost as if he were mad at me.  It was at that instant, I heard my first name called very loudly.  I felt that someone was displeased with my presence there and that I must have done something wrong.  

It was at that very instant that I had to back. I was not 'told' in the normal sense to go back.  I simply understood that I had no choice but to go back into my body.  And I woke up still sitting in my chair.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see the microwave in the room.  At first, I didn't know where I was because it was all black but, when I saw the microwave, I thought, 'Oh, okay...' and then I knew I was still near my body in the chair.  It was like I really had to squint hard and focus before the microwave was viewable in the dark.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything and nothing all at the same time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the grey area.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was not meaningful, but it seemed like the whole experience only took a few minutes, like five minutes or so.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if I was without my body - just a traveling brain, if that makes any sense.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Louder.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A grey area - the floor was grey, the whole area seemed grey.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confusion at first and then nothing until I arrived at the grey area and then I started feeling like I was in trouble.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     It just seemed like I was 'devoid' of everything.  I knew the man, the voice, and me.  That was it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The man was sitting on a drop-off of some sort.  I could not see beyond him, though.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I heard my name called by a man's voice, and I knew I had to come back to my body, against my will.  I remember thinking it was not fair to not be given a choice.  I felt a total lack of will, as if my will had been taken away from me.  When I got back to my body, I remember feeling mad and hurt.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I am seeking good churches for me to attend.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Baptist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I want to know who that man was, why he was mad/aggravated and what was he fiddling with in his hands at the time of my arrival?

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God more now, and know that some people are not living right, according to his plan.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I did not recognize this man.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I didn't get far enough to gain a complete understanding of anything.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I know there is a God because I had to come back to my body. And, the voice came from him, or from someone who called my name in a males voice loudly.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The whole experience assured me there is life after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Now I am worried about where I will go after I die.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am more alone now, and it doesn't bother me as much as it used to before this experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes, because it all seems so surreal.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Now I sense things more, and also children smile at me as if maybe I give off light.  Children stare at me, whereas before, they didn't.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, about the man... who is he?  And whose voice called my name?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did, a few months or so afterwards.  I think some people do not believe me, others just look at me in wonderment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about a white tunnel, and the light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, I died.  It was not a dream - my chest hurt for a month or so after it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, I died.  It was not a dream - my chest hurt for a month or so after it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.

      Experience Description 5112  					</p>  					My heart hurt really badly for a split second, and then I remember slipping down in my chair.  I got about two foot away from my body and it was totally dark, and I remember feeling total weightlessness, and at the same time I was totally void of any emotion at all.  Then, without hearing a voice, I 'knew' that I was being told to go back into my body, and I remember saying, 'Ok.'  Then, a split second later, I was back in my body.  I didn't take a mental note to remember the date/day it happened.  It was just totally dark, I was no longer in my body.  I just know that I was about two feet away from my body when I had to go back.  I saw myself slipping down into the chair for only a split second and then all of a sudden it got dark.  It was the best feeling to have no emotion at all... but it is very hard to describe.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan. 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   A few seconds after my heart started hurting and it got dark... right before I knew I had to go back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       A few seconds after my heart started hurting and it got dark… right before I knew I had to go back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew I was no longer in my body, but dark, yet comforting.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It all happened very fast, there were no colors.  My heart hurt, I was out of my body, then I was told 'mentally' to go back to my body, so I did.  It was almost as if I had absolutely no will at all.  I had to do what I was told.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  Totally void of any emotion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I no longer think people are without souls.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was a total void of emotion, and total weightlessness... like total freedom from everything.  My 'mind' was told to go back into my body and, although no words were spoken, I recall saying, 'Ok' and then I was back in my body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the part where God seemed to tell me, by using ESP, to go back into my body.  I heard no voice at all; I just knew I had to go back.  That was very meaningful to me, to have a total loss of control - no will of your own.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told one person, about three weeks after the event.  He believed me, told me I had a reason to live.  He seemed inspired in a way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard a few stories, but did not believe any of them.  Now I 'know' this can happen because it happened to me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened.  I had a heart attack and died, and then I came back a few seconds later (however long).  I was not fully slumped out of my chair- it was real.  There is a God.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened.  I had a heart attack and died, and then I came back a few seconds later (however long).  I was not fully slumped out of my chair- it was real.  There is a God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Believe.  There is a God.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenda_probable_nde.html