{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenda_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Glenda H NDE 981","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenda H NDE 981  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenda H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						422  Glenda H NDE  981  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I was 14 or maybe 16 years old, I lived in Omaha, Nebraska. On the weekends, I would go to work with my uncle. He worked at a 24 hour gas station. On a Friday night, I went to sleep about 3 a.m. and it was cold in my uncle's car. Most of the time, I could stay up and work with him, but that night it was too cold. He asked me if I wanted the car engine left on until I went to sleep.  I told him, 'No, I'll be all right.'  After I went to sleep, he came and turned on the car, just out of thoughtfulness.


The car had an exhaust leak, so when we were in it, the windows had to be half way down.  As he was starting the car, a customer pulled up, so he was interrupted and forgot to roll down the front windows of the car a little bit.  He told me that the car was running for about 45 minutes.


I left my body.  I traveled in darkness and sadness until I found light and comfort.  A being was sitting on a throne and asked me to sit next to him.  (Yes, it was a man.) Before I sat down, I saw others who were behind him.  I asked, 'Who are they?  My angels? Oh, am I an angel too?' I was told, 'Not at this time, soon you will be.'  I could hear the voices saying, 'We'll miss you, remember you, and also wait for you.'  Somehow, I knew that though.


Leaving was not what I wanted to do.  I liked it there with the feeling of great compassion and I can't explain the wonderful feeling.  The light told me that I had to go back.  I asked, 'Why?' The reply was, 'Your life was not intended to be taken by another.' So, I sat down, knowing I couldn't stay.


He then showed me a little of my life in the past.  He told me that I still had to learn one of life's lessons.  He told me of the future that I will love the father of my children that I could touch the face of God with that kind of love.  I remember feeling that I will return to this place.  All of a sudden, the light started to go away, but the voice was still with me telling me that nobody was there to revive my earthly body.  I was told, 'You must leave or your soul will live in mysteries forever.  Wake up and urinate.'


My uncle told me that when he saw me crawling out of the car in what he called 'a deep sleepwalk'; he knew what had happened.  I kept repeating, 'I must urinate now, I must urinate now…' He helped me to a chair.  He was saying that my body was limp, as if I was dead.  Then, I wet my pants because the voice had told me to urinate.


As my life continues on earth, I remember more of the experience and it seems as if my whole life time was spent there.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1975

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     breathing carbon monoxide was death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Nothing

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I believe that I met my 5th Great Grandfather there and walked with him.  After the NDE, I told my mother that he is an Indian Chief.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was a voice with smaller lights around it.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think my Grandfather took me to his land before the white man came.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Just that I will love my children's father deeply.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     He showed me the good parts of the past.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       That my uncle would be blamed for killing me. My guide said that my life was not intended to be taken by another.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenda_h_nde.html