{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glenda_h_nde_3045.html","mytitle":"Glenda H NDE 3045","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glenda H NDE 3045  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glenda H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1080  Glenda H NDE  3045  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was back in High School. My girlfriend and I decided to skip church and go for a joy ride with two boys. For years, I just knew GOD was punishing me for skipping church. There were four of us in a tiny VW Bug. Just for the record VOLKSWAGENS DO NOT FLOAT!!!! Anyways we were going a little too fast on a one-lane, loose gravel road. We came up on a sharp left turn. My friend, who was driving, tried to gear down so we wouldn't slide. That didn't work so we put on the brakes. We hit head on into a cement culvert about three feet high. The car, after impact, was flipped up in the air, spiraled, turned around and came back toward the ground head first. The bad part was there wasn't any ground where we were going to crash, we were headed for a dark, cold, swift, and deep irrigation canal out on a nearby Indian Reservation.

After the car hit the water it turned and stood up on it's butt. Both people in the back were thrown up in the front area on top of us. Everyone was screaming, panicking, and hitting each other to get a door opened in mid-air. Then the impact. The car had settled underwater with the butt end down. The car was quickly starting to fill up with icy cold water. It was black as pitch outside with no close neighbors. As the car was filling up with water, everybody was scratching and clawing at everybody. The fear was so intense and so was the pain. I guess everyone had gotten out but me. Thank GOD, in Volkswagens, the front passenger area has a lot of leg room. This leg room area was pointing upwards, giving me some air space, and was the last to fill up.

When my friends realized that I was still trapped underwater in the car, the driver dove in. He must have had an Angel's help or a ton of adrenalin because he literally twisted the car door off its hinge and still managed, against a very strong current, to throw the door up out of the water and about another thirty or forty feet up on the bank.

I remember looking back and I got the eeriest feeling looking at the car with its headlights still working and pointing up through the mucky water. I remember someone grabbing me and pulling me. I kept hitting, struggling and fighting with him, not realizing just what was going on. I had been out of air for probably a minute or so by then. After talking to him later, he told me that all of a sudden, my body went completely limp and I quit fighting him. I know this was immediately after the thought was put into my head, 'Oh, I'm dead.' Immediately I was not scared, panicked, cold, hurting from scratches from people, everything had been instantly replaced with the strongest feeling of contentment you could ever imagine and then times that by about a million times. The LOVE where I was wasn't exactly like our love down here. Down here, we get momentary butterflies in our stomachs or quick realizations of loving something or someone, but it's never constant. When I was in transport the love I was enveloped in, and I mean enveloped, was so concentrated it was almost like I was breathing it in, like I breathe in air down here.

The next thing I remember is that people without form were way in the distance. I was hoping to see family members but wasn't given that privilege. I had a 'knowing' that I was with was GOD, right up until recently. A member here did some checking for me and said I wasn't with GOD that I had been with Jesus. Whoever He was, he could put LOVE directly in my heart just with his telepathic thoughts. I was shown that there, people's personal 'light' brightens or dims, depending on the telepathic thoughts they received. It's kind of hard to explain. I sensed I was shown many more things and, for whatever reason, wasn't allowed to remember some of them.

The second I died, the thought 'Oh, I'm dead,' casually and matter-of-factly entered my head and there was an immediate acceptance on my part.

I did find out about the so-called 'Judgment Day' I feared so much as a child. We judge ourselves and that at first was a big relief but our life is still our job. I was shown what is now called a 'Life Review'. I was shown in living color, like on a movie certain situations, both good and bad, in my life. I was able to see and hear exactly how it was. But the kicker was as I was watching this situation unfold right before my eyes, I was forced, for the lack of a better word, to feel the other person's feelings at the time, not mine. Beside all the life situations shown to me, I was given the capabilities to hear EVERY SINGLE SIGNIFICANT thing that has EVER affected me during my life, the good, bad, and ugly. I heard EVERYTHING at the same time with extreme clarity. I was with a Being made out of the brightest white light I have ever been able to look at without hurting my eyes. I felt it was GOD. All the time there, we were communicating through telepathy, no spoken words. I was told 'These are your accomplishments,' or 'What have you accomplished?' (I can't remember which was said) and was sent back.

I remember not wanting to come back and oddly enough, the love for my family didn't even enter my thoughts for some reason. I felt like I was there a long time, by our standards; however, the whole ordeal took place in about two minutes of our Earth time. I didn't see or don't recall any type of tunnel like others have. I didn't get to see any physical landscapes or beautiful gardens or anything. I went from the canal to standing by GOD.

My friend, who was rescuing me out of the car underwater, told me later that he remembers when my body went completely limp. I told him that's when I drowned but I don't think he believed me, we were just kids in High School.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Summer of 1964

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Other I drowned in a car accident.  I was in an automobile accident and after hitting a cement culvert, the car flipped up and headed down towards an irrigation canal.

  			      How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was shown my 'life review'. Immediately after I died I felt so loved and contented.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was shown my 'life review'. Immediately after I died I felt so loved and contented.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt like I was there for a really long time, but, in our reality it was only a minute or two.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I do not consider what I experienced to be a vision, it was real. The brightness of GOD, the being of light was extremely bright but it did not hurt my eyes to look at it. All beings there were made up of light.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    As mentioned earlier, I could hear every significant statement from others all at the same time. There was no blending or overlapping at all. I had extreme clarity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I was with one being of light and, at the time, I felt a knowing that it was GOD of my understanding. All the communication was done through telepathy. I sensed that there were other beings there; however, I don't recall any details.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I don't recall any light other than the beings where I was.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     I came back with the awareness that I was shown much more than I was allowed to remeber.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      These were all felt at very extreme levels: love, contentment, peace, joy, a feeling that I was 'home' and this existence here was not real.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that the feared 'Judgment day' shouldn't be feared at all. I found out during my life review that we actually judge ourselves. The fear of dying subsided and I am not afraid anymore because where I was felt like my real home and this reality on Earth is just some sort of school to learn life lessons.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I was a Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I no longer go to any organized religions due to the dogma and fear they instill in their members. I have a philosophy 'Religion is for people who are afraid of going to hell, Spirituality is for people who have already been there.'

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   No organized religion. I seek spirituality

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I no longer go to any organized religions due to the dogma and fear they instill in their members. I have a philosophy 'Religion is for people who are afraid of going to hell, Spirituality is for people who have already been there.'

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I gained the knowledge that our reality here on Earth is not real. I know I was sent back to accomplish more in this lifetime.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Trying to describe my enhanced senses. Trying to describe the intensity of the love and contentment I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Too many to describe and remember. This experience was over forty-three years ago. I am currently trying to developed my psychic abilities.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just what I mentioned about my judging myself, that was a relief. It confirmed to me that there is a GOD and Spirit Realm that some refer to as Heaven. I was given another chance to come back and be a better person by helping others more. When I was told I had to come back to Earth, I did not want to and the stranger part was that the love I have for friends and family members wasn't even in my thoughts at the time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It happened in 1964. I repressed the memory because I feared I was be made fun off or people would condemn me as being crazy. It was when I was in an alcohol addiction treatment center that the memory surfaced and I had to look at me for my own emotional wellbeing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definately not real      I was confused and thought I may have lost my mind. I stayed in denial of the experience for many years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Since my experience I have been shown many things that are not of this world. I bought every book I could find on the subject to reconfirm what I had went through.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   No drugs that I have ever taken even come close. It was REAL, not drug induced.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Just for people to know that there is a special place and special people watching over them and the human death as we know it doesn't really exist. Our body's die but we NEVER do.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would eliminate all the questions about drugs. This implies that the experiences are not real.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glenda_h_nde_3045.html