{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1glauco_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Glauco S NDE 3674","mylang":"de"}
          	        Glauco S NDE 3674  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Glauco S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1675 Glauco S NDE 3674  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At age eight my father took me and my two brothers (ages ten and eleven) to go fishing in a river called Rio Guaiba in Porto Alegre, Brazil.

It was a hot day and very sunny. When we got there, my father was setting up camp when we ask him if we could walk up river a little bit.

At first, he said no, but after we begged a little bit he agreed, but told us not to go in the water, he said that a few times.

We started to walk near the water and we got to a bush that was half in the land and half on the water. I don't remember which one of us had the idea to go in the water grabbing the bush to get to the other side.

My brother Marco age ten went first, He took a few steps and I don't remember well how he lost his footing but he did, he went under. Then my older brother Carlon tried to help him and went under. I don't know why but I went after them. Note: we didn't know how to swim.

I stared to panic, I was really scared. I remember trying to breathe but I couldn't, water was going in instead, there was no more oxygen. I remember moving my arms and legs frantically trying to save my life. I remember my body hitting things under water, I don't know what was hitting me but it was painful. That day the river was moving fast from west to east towards the ocean. I don't know how much time went by but I couldn't move any more. I remember just floating under water and I hit the bottom. The water was brown and I couldn't see anything. I knew I was dying and I screamed 'PLEASE GOD HELP ME!' (My mom used to take me to church.) I don't know how but I knew that God was the only one that could help me.

That was when I felt my life fading. Then I heard the most pleasing voice telling me to relax and that everything was going to be okay. I then felt arms embracing me, I knew it was a man and he was very kind and gentle. I was so happy and confused at the same time. We were floating in midair. I then realized that I was not dead, not yet anyway. I sensed we were going up very fast. All my pains were gone and I could breathe again. My body was not solid anymore, I could see right through it, but I could feel me.

Then I saw that we going towards this light, slowly at first. When we got close to the light, the light just engulfed me. It was brighter than the sun but didn't hurt my eyes. The angel that was with me said 'Bye' and faded away. I was floating there for a moment thinking, 'What's happening?' I felt connected to everything and that everything was connected to me. (Hard to explain.) Then I felt I was not alone anymore. I could see this shape of a man coming closer. When he got close enough, I felt the most beautiful feeling of love and belonging; there are no words my human mind can say to describe these feelings (sorry). Imagine yourself in an airplane and the airplane blows up! Then you wake up - just a dream. Kind of like that. I was so happy I wasn't dead for real, but where am I? (That place felt more real than this one.)

This angel (I call them angels) came closer to my right side and spoke to me, but his lips were not moving. He was talking to my mind. I could hear him through mind, being, and my soul. He told me he was there to help me with my questions (and boy did I have questions) but first he started to show me my life like a movie (hard to explain). My life was going backwards. I remember thinking 'How bad can this be? I'm only eight years old.' The first image I saw was something bad that I did (I used a key to scratch a car). I could feel the pain that I caused because of my actions. Then I remember thinking 'Oooh no! I'm in trouble!' My angel surprised me by saying, 'Don't worry, these are just lessons.' I remember thinking 'Oh crap, he can read my mind too.' He heard that too and gave me this lovely, beautiful smile. This movie was showing, second by second, my entire life; everything I saw I could feel the results of it. Everything I did had a life of its own. Like when I felt the feelings and thoughts of the owner of the car, and then he told his wife about it.  I could feel her pain too, and on and on and on. (Not a good feeling.)

He didn't show me just the bad things I did; he showed me the things I did out of love too. He showed me the time I took this homeless boy I become friends with. I took him home with me, we showered together, we ate together and I give him some of my clothes too. I could feel how happy I made my angel feel. He told me that those are the things that really matter, those where the things that will make a difference in the world for the better. As my life was going backwards I saw me as a baby inside my mother, then just a molecule of life, really, really small but alive. Today when I see women having an abortion, I want to cry. They don't understand that God give them this child for a reason, and that she was chosen by that life (child). Don't know how I know that, I just do!

Then the movie stopped and he said two words and everything I wanted to know was answered by it. (Like a package deal.) All my questions were answered in an instant. Then I started to miss my life, as I knew it. I started to think about my mother and I could feel her pain when she heard the news that all her sons died. I knew my angel was showing me this because it wasn't my time.  My mission wasn't done. What mission? I still don't know. I don't know how long all of this took; I didn't have the sense of time anymore. (But if I try, it will take years to show and tell everything.) Anyway, I was missing my life and I wanted to go back. I had flashbacks about playing soccer with my friend, being hugged by my mom, the sun, the rain, things that made me happy. I also knew my angel did this for a reason because any sane person would not want to go back.

I also realized for the first time how beautiful and fragile Earth really is. I could sense the earth breathing like it was alive. I could see a light around everything that was alive, trees, flowers, grass, animals, volcanoes and humans. I sensed that humans were in control over other living things, I have the word (aura) stamped in my mind ever since. Don't know why but the angel told me not to tell anyone and that time will reveal it itself. I said 'What?' But then I felt a jolt in my soul, a feeling that I was back in my body. Next thing I know, I was being held by another angel. He was pushing me out of the water. It was then that I realized that I was human again. Oh my God, what a feeling! I wish I could make everyone feel that feeling.

Then I felt like I was drunk, the first thing I saw was this beautiful blue sky and I could breathe again. Then I realized, 'Where my brothers?' I looked to my right and there they were, walking out of the water with me! OH MY GOD! THANK-YOU! THANK-YOU! THANK-YOU! I have tear in my eyes thinking about it. Our God and father is so good to us. Then I saw people rushing towards us, some were crying, some were smiling and hugging each other. They felt as happy as I did! Why? Then this police officer was talking on his radio he said, 'I found them, I found the kids!' He told the others to come up river, the other officers were looking for us down river where they thought we were. After a couple of minutes, they got there and said, 'This can't be them! They couldn't survive twenty-two minutes underwater and talk about it!' The medical personal that was there agreed with them, and they all went back down river. I was trying to tell what happened but I couldn't speak. I mean my mouth was moving but no sound. I looked up in the sky and said 'Please give me my voice back, I won't tell anyone!' I got my voice back!

I got a little stutter today but I don't care about that. For all I know they are still looking for us. I don't know which is better, being back here or having the knowledge that we never die. Today, I take things as they come and I try to do everything with love. But that is sometimes really hard because we live in a world of uncertainty. People don't know who God really is. They make it really hard for me to love them as I should, but I forgive them and love them on the inside, even though I don't show them sometimes. God knows what I mean.

My brothers and I never talked about this until Christmas of 2007 (thirty-eight years later).

I ask Marco if he remembered anything, he told me that an angel asked him not to talk about it. A week went by and I asked Carlon what happened. He said that we died and that an angel saved us. He said he also saw the movie. I don't know why but we never got too deep on this conversation. I think we are scared that something would happen, because we were asked not to. If you guys don't hear from me, you know why. As I get older, I have the urge to tell the world that God and heaven is very real. I have to be very responsible when talking about this. I don't feel that I am the one writing this, but my soul.

I pray that one day the human race, the sons and daughters of God will live on Earth with that Love and Peace that I felt, and come to the realization that we are one.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Additional questions and answers:

Greetings! Dr Long.

Thanks for letting me share. You asked me some questions and I'll tell you as best as I can.

I didn't sense the voice I heard it. I was told not to tell anyone. So the best way to answer this I have to put myself back to that day. I saw and felt all the wonders of the universe and how all things were made and how the earth will be one day. I remember knowing all that, but as soon I come back everything went blank. When I got out of the water, I could sense that a piece of that place was still with me. I try to tell people and I couldn't, I wanted to tell my mom one day but when I open my mouth I felt this emptiness inside like my soul left my body but I was in my body and not my soul (just for a second). That was very scary. It was the upset of what I experienced. Imagine a body with no soul! I been living like this ever since. Hiding!

For your second question, I called Marco after work and ask him a few questions and told him about you.

He told me that he saw the light; he saw his review and they told him things too, he had no pain and could breathe, he felt loved and that he told the angels he wanted to come back. The angel told him not to tell anyone.

My brother Carlon says the same things. We all saw the same angel when we got out of the water. He had dark skin, tall and beautiful. But no wings. I tell you more someday. (I hope).

Be blessed.

Glauco S.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer of 1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I was under water for 22 minutes  I was under water for twenty-two minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Oh YES!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Oh YES!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I feel they didn't show me everything for a reason. What I saw was very real. I mean more real than what I see here. I never felt more alive in my life.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear things with my ears; I heard things with my soul. (Hard to explain.)

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It felt like a tunnel because there was a light in the distance.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They told who they were but I can't remember the words, I call them angels. I didn't recognize them, but they knew me! They told me many things. He was on my right side. And I didn't feel he was Jesus.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I can cry just thinking about the light. I felt that the light was God. But, I was eight years old.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw the lights on living things on Earth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, love, and loved, alive, but I had the feeling that I was not who I thought I was, feelings of belonging, joy, extremely happy. Tell me a good feeling and I had that ten-fold.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I describe everything above. And yes I had my review.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is alive! He is inside of me. I know is hard to believe but he does.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'My mom used to take me to church and I was on bible class when this happen.  When I died, God help me! was the first words out of my mouth.(brain)'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is alive! He is inside of me. I know is hard to believe but he does.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When I walked out of the water I sensed and knew I could do something that I couldn't do before, but something was holding me back and I didn't try it. (kind of scared).  Today I go to church and I think I know more than the pastors do. I think only after we die we really understand what the Bible is. (Our manual to get back home.)  The Bible is all about that love I felt there. The only time I really feel alive here is when I'm in love with a girl, but it's very painful when they don't feel the same way. When I'm in love, everything feels alive, music, air, rain, sunshine. I can feel GOD. Again, hard to explain.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became aware about the need of others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   To me I find hard to find words to describe the beauty of it all, the sense of peace and the reality of it all.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became the best goalie in my town. I went professional right before we moved to America. I could see or feel the path of where the ball would end up. I become one of the best limo drivers people ever saw. Once I drove about ten miles with a glass of wine on the roof of my limo. People were telling me to pullover, when I did and saw that I knew I was not alone. Today I have a painting business and people tell me I'm a real artist. I just try to do my best with everything I do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't want to just yet, but one thing I can say is that 'loving one another is the most important thing we can do to save our souls'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me thirty-six years to feel free to talk about it. My mom was the first. My wife was the second. I told my pastor about it one year ago. I wanted to scream to the world what I went through, but I feel I can't. Can you help?

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As real as you are viewing this words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     More real now than ever. When I was in my twenties when doctors told me I could never have a baby. My son is eight years old. Nothing is impossible to God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, but my little miracle wants to use the computer, sorry. Email me anytime.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Just tell the world!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1glauco_s_nde.html