{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1giselle_rv_nde.html","mytitle":"Giselle RV NDE 4859","mylang":"de"}
          	        Giselle RV NDE 4859  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Giselle RV NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2521 Giselle RV NDE 4859  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital, semi-seated in bed, after giving birth to my first child. I was having a cup of coffee and chatting with the ladies I shared the hospital room with, who had also recently given birth. Suddenly, I felt as if I were bleeding. When I looked down, I saw a lot of blood. I called the nurse and was immediately taken to the operating room for a dilatation and curettage procedure. The doctor and nurse started to work on me. Since I was in a lot of pain, they administered anesthesia. I quickly went under and don't know when it happened. I woke up, but only my mind, my body was still asleep. I heard the nurse tell the doctor that they were losing me. He replied that they had to save me, that it was their responsibility since they had given me too much anesthesia without intubation.

I suddenly became aware that my heart and lungs were silent and thought to myself 'Now I really must have died, at least I am not in pain.' My soul or spirit left my body and I found myself floating in a dark space. I was not afraid. I felt comfortable there. I thought it was very beautiful. I was still thinking like myself, feeling like myself.  My memory and personality remained, and I could float in this space freely. I had something similar to my body but it was made of a transparent and milky substance. Like ghosts are described, with a slight glow. When I got bored of being there by myself without doing anything, I thought that there must be more than this. I asked God to take me where He was.

I started to float but could not tell in which direction. I was gradually able to make out a small light and noticed that I was quickly traveling toward it through what seemed like a big tunnel. My arrival there is a little confusing. I was welcomed by beings who I remember as very tall and made of an incredible light. They loved me like no one had ever loved me. I felt what can only be described as the love of God surrounding me, welcoming me, filling me with warmth and happiness. To this day, when the suffering of this world makes me despair, I close my eyes and travel there. The fact that all of this will pass and I will return with them is a consolation to me. I remember thinking ' At last, I have returned home, my God this is my home.'

I know that I spoke to them for a long time and then they took me to another place. I don't remember walls but I had the feeling that it was more enclosed. I saw something similar to a three dimensional movie of my life up until that day. There was no judgment. They only showed me what was expected of me in certain situations and that perhaps I hadn't behaved the way I should have. I remember vividly that it was expected that my soul controls my body, that the body is only the vehicle necessary for life on planet earth that we are not to let the vehicle control us. I saw where I had fallen short was mainly by omission. Sometimes by laziness or not wanting to complicate my life, I had not helped someone that needed it. At that moment, my hands were available for God to respond to a person in need. I have tried hard to correct this, trying to see the best in others acting as a bridge for God to tell someone their worth, how beautiful they look, or how much they are loved by God and how important their friendship is. These may seem small and silly things but they are very important to some people at certain times.

They told me that it was not my time but that due to a medical mistake I arrived home once again. I still had a lot do and to learn but under no circumstance did I want to return to earth. I was going through a rough time in my life and was afraid to lose all those wonderful feelings.

A being of light, even brighter and more loving, who could have been Jesus, asked them to show me part of what I still had to do on earth and to show me my new born son in the crib at the hospital. They told me that my son had a learning path depending on the fact that I would be his mother and that my decision would greatly affect his life. With all the pain in my heart (by the way I had no physical pain) I decided to return. They would have to erase almost all of my memories because they explained that if I remembered too much I would not be able to handle the desire to return and would run the risk of committing suicide, which was considered wrong in that dimension.

When I agreed to return it was very difficult for me to decide to enter my body, so heavy, dense, encumbering. But a deal is a deal. I entered just at the time they were using the electrical metal plates to restart the heart. I heard the nurse say, 'Doctor, she has a pulse.' I then fell asleep and woke up in the recovery room.

I have to finish that which I promised even if I do not remember what it is. I have tried to give the best of me this time. Not to say that I have achieved it, but I will keep trying to be better each day of my life.  I try to see things and people in a positive light, to enjoy and give thanks to God for each moment that I live, for the air that I breathe, the fruit, the flowers, the animals and my four children and grandchildren. I wait impatiently (since it has been thirty-two years) for the day that I return home and rest from my passage through this life. I am not afraid of death, although I take good care of myself in order to keep my earthly vehicle in good condition and return it used but in working order. I like life in this place, although I have suffered a lot, but is seems like this is the way that we learn and grow. I am not afraid of God; I feel only deep reverence toward him. I know that he is my loving father who is waiting for me and will welcome me with Love and Peace. The truth is that I want it to be over already, I want to return. Thank God, my children are older now and will be able to continue with their life plans without me. Later we will see each other again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12 de agosto de 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  'Hemorragia grave, luego de 5 horas después del parto'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   As soon as I started to bleed, I realized that it was very dangerous because of the amounts of blood I was losing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was with the beings of light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with the beings of light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     After my return it seems that way but being in that dimension everything seemed so normal that you do not realize that everything has changed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     For me it was an enormous tunnel but full of peace. At no time did I feel nervous or afraid.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I explained above.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I explained above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Siento que me llevaron a varios lugares pero todo fue borrado.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Reverence, happiness, peace, security, love. I was also very sad because I had to return.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Many things were clarified.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am still catholic because it is a little less fanatical but I have a different view regarding the beliefs of others. I believe God approaches you according to your individual beliefs, that we are all his children and He speaks to us according to the language that we understand. I do not believe in everlasting damnation for those with different beliefs. I think that hell exists only for those who voluntarily choose to distance themselves from God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am still catholic because it is a little less fanatical but I have a different view regarding the beliefs of others. I believe God approaches you according to your individual beliefs, that we are all his children and He speaks to us according to the language that we understand. I do not believe in everlasting damnation for those with different beliefs. I think that hell exists only for those who voluntarily choose to distance themselves from God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am left with the feeling of knowing but not being able to put it into detail.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have learned to see beyond appearances. I see in people their struggle to be better even though they do not always succeed. I have been called naive, silly, sometimes a hypocrite, because I get close to people that treat me badly and try to be their friend.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words that can express what I have experienced, it is too big, for someone that has not gone though it, to understand.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Especially the decision to return, it was very difficult for me. My heart still aches from having had to make that decision.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my close family, but no one was interested and they did not believe me. A few years ago my father had a similar experience and then he understood me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I only knew that I had experienced something very different to what I knew. I never heard anyone speak of something like this. It is my experience and I know that it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am fifty-four years old. I am a very healthy person, mind and body. I have had dreams and nightmares, good and bad but none of these dreams have lasted more than a few days in my mind. In all of these years my experience has not faded one bit. I am anxious to return.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I can't think of anything at this time. Perhaps provide email addresses, by country, so that we can communicate with others that have had similar experiences. I have not been able to find any in Costa Rica.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1giselle_rv_nde.html