{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1giselle_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Giselle L NDE 5334","mylang":"de"}
          	        Giselle L NDE 5334  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Giselle L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2805 Giselle L NDE 5334  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember a police officer slapping me across the face, telling me to wake up. I could not keep my eyes open, let alone move.  Then I was moving down a hall, which I assumed was part of the hospital's emergency room corridors. I was being pushed by four people.  One person was the doctor, and another one I remember saying distinctly, 'Her pupils are dilated.'

I then found myself floating in a void. It was neither dark nor light.  It was just nothingness. I was lying on my back, looking up, floating. No thoughts. No Emotions. Within me was complete emptiness; I seemed to be completely free. I have a hard time finding words to describe this experience. For example, I don't know if this sense of weightlessness within would be called a 'feeling' or what.  It was just peace. There is nothing in my experience that I could compare to this.  I floated into the light and then I found myself standing. Two figures of energy, no form, no outline, came toward me. No sound, no language. One telepathically told me, 'It's not your time', and it stretched a part of itself out to a point where there was a tunnel. This tunnel was amazing. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. It was alive. It was energy, and its color was bright blue! A living framework, geometrically perfect lines, synchronized, moving lines that spun inside each other. So beautiful!  I zipped through it and ended up in the void again, where I found myself staring through a square-shaped hole. I was staring at myself while the doctor and nurses were trying to revive me.  I was pulled back into my body, and began to hear everyone around me. I was looking at them, even though my eyes were closed. I could not move or speak. Soon all the pain of a dying body came rushing into me. I sat up, screaming at the doctor, 'Why did you bring me back?'  Then I passed out.  When I awoke, a psychologist was sitting at my bedside.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Uncertain Year

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Excessive Alcohol consumption. Alcohol Poisoning  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had been drinking a lot of alcohol – too much, in fact.  It killed me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the void.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the void.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No Space and No Time existed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A beautiful, amazing tunnel of energy and light; moving and twisting inside.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were in front of me. I did not know them. I don't know if they were beings. More like figures of energy and light. One told me it was not my time.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just light, nothing profound. It seemed to emanate from a source not too far away.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the Void.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I don't like to call what I experienced 'emotion'.  My body seemed to be free from all emotion. The word I would choose would be 'bliss'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     When I arrived at the light, it reminded me of a crossroads, a gateway.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'None'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'None'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Nothing can be compared to it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     There are times I hear people who are far away from where I am. I am very sensitive to the emotions of others. For a time, I was able to see the energy, the life force of all things connected to one another, a continuously flowing energy, passing from a flower to a pencil to the sunglasses on my head.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        In the void, where I was stripped of all my human suffering.  During that time, I was aware that there is no need for human suffering.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my grandmother soon after. She said that God was with me, and that I had been in Heaven, but that I should not have been there, because I had not been baptized and I had not received Jesus Christ into my life.  No - not influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that the experience was 'definitely real' right away.    People seemed to stop and stare at me whenever I paused to stare at the connectedness of energy being shared throughout everything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as 'definitely real.'    And to this day, I do not feel complete as a human being. I feel that I left something behind. I don't feel grounded here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1giselle_l_nde.html