{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ginny_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Ginny H NDE 7738","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ginny H NDE 7738  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ginny H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3983 Ginny H NDE 7738  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am an asthmatic and was having a really bad attack. I was an undergraduate at the time and went to the health center for treatment. From there, I was transferred to hospital. My breathing became increasingly labored. By the time I arrived at the hospital, I was turning blue. I was fighting for each breath. The next thing I know, I was no longer working so hard to breath anymore. I thought to myself, 'That's strange.' 

I tried to take a breath, but nothing happened. I was not afraid. In fact, I was very calm. I felt as light as air. I was floating above my body. I saw myself on the gurney and the medical staff working diligently to put a breathing tube down my throat. Again, I felt no fear.  I was not quite sure what I was seeing.  I heard them talking, machines going off, and the doctor barking orders. Then I was floating higher until I was surrounded by the whitest, brightest light I have ever seen. I remember thinking, 'Why does this light not hurt my eyes?'  At the same time, I felt at peace. I found myself in this space.  It was a huge white space. I felt love, comfort, peace, and joy that surrounded me. The feeling was in me, as if I could wrap myself in it and it was Beautiful. I walked forward to a curtain that was a beautiful flowing 'white lace' that was alive. I am not sure I can explain it, but it was like it was breathing. I am not sure how I understood that, but I did. I pushed the curtain aside and walked past it.  

I found myself in the presence of a male figure in a white gown made of the same material as the white lace curtain.  He had a glow around him. He had such great love for me. I could feel it. This being, an angel perhaps, spoke to me saying, 'Don't worry Ginny the breath of life will be breathed back into you. Your time has not yet come.' I look at him and replied, 'But I do not want to go.' The next thing I knew I was moving so fast, back from where I came from. I slammed back into my body. I came into the breathing tube, into my mouth, down my throat into my trachea and then lungs. I could see this. I then heard myself breathing, but it was not a natural kind breathing. It was a mechanical, a unnatural kind of breathing. 

That was the last thing I remember. I woke up in the intensive care unit five days latter. I have never spoke of this until now. It sounds crazy I know. It took me a long time to understand it myself. Only now that I find myself in the middle of a career crisis, I find myself think about it what did that mean? Was it real? Yes, I think so.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  fall 1095

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Illness.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Respiratory arrest during severe asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the nurses and the Doctor talking, I felt their anxiety. I heard the medical equipment making noises.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of things like great love and peace. It was not verbalized, but felt.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert through the whole thing. That is until I stopped breathing. After that, it was a different kind of consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Not sure if I can express it in words.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright light. A light that does not exist here on Earth.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in this space, a void of white light of love, incredible joy, and peace.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I had never felt so loved.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   At the time I was questioning my faith in the church and in God.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not question the church as I did before.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I have come to terms with the church. I attend on a regular basis and believe that God is always there.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I questioned my faith. Now I do not.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My faith, my belief in mankind.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A figure. A loving figure. He had great love for me. He spoke to me. I could clearly hear him speak to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Before I was not sure if there was a God, or a Haven. I was afraid of death.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes, there is life after death.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes, there is a God. He lives in me. I know with all my heart that I will someday go back there.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   God does have a plan for me. What that is I am not sure, but he does.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     yes God does have a plan for me. What that is I am not sure, but he does.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes love does exist. It is here on Earth and in Haven.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I think now I am not so quick to judge others.     I think now I am not so quick to judge others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have learned to trust others, accept, and return love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I am not sure I can ever fully explain what I saw and felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Love, I am loved.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was not sure what it all meant. I was not even sure if it was real or the effects of the powerful respiratory drugs that were given to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I know it was real. I have never spoken of it for fear of others thinking I was crazy. But I know now that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This is the first time I have ever spoken of it. This is a big step for me. The whole thing sounds crazy.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ginny_h_nde.html