{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ginger_m_nde_9544.html","mytitle":"Ginger M NDE 9544","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ginger M NDE 9544  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ginger M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5138 Ginger M NDE 9544  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I had a fast childbirth,  but the doctor was not ready. I was not in delivery room, but in a labor room. The nurse tried to get me to not push while on the way to the delivery room.  My baby came out in one push. The doctor stood at the table.  I lifted my head and asked what was wrong. I saw the placenta was almost shredded. They were counting the coils. 

  I had horrific pain in my right, lower abdomen for three days after giving birth.  The medical staff kept telling me it was after-pains. This was my second child and I knew they were wrong. I had fever of 104F degrees. On the third night after delivery, I got up to go to bathroom and felt something fall out of me. It was black mass that was part of shredded placenta.  I started hemorrhaging onto floor. I hollered for help and nurses got me to bed. I called my husband and told him what happened.  I told staff that I was going to pass out. 

  I realized that I was watching from ceiling.  Curiously, a part of hospital room wall was gone. I saw one of the nurses raise her arm to give me a precordial thump.  Then, I noticed a stairway with two people.  I went to the people, who escorted me up stairway. I felt the most wonderful feeling of love and peace that surrounded me. I never wanted this feeling to end. I walked out onto a beautiful garden, where my great-grandmother was waiting for me.  She was young, but I knew it was her. She talked to me for a long time. We walked in that beautiful place and she told me that it was her garden. Then we walked to a huge, jeweled gate. I could see golden shimmers beyond the gate. My great-grandmother told me I couldn't go past the gate because it was not my time. I protested and she pushed me. I fell into my earthly body. 

  Nobody would listen to what I had seen. It took a long time to heal. I know what happened to me all those years ago and stand by what I felt and saw.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/21/1981  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth  CPR given     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Hemorrhage after childbirth  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear and see the staff working on me. I didn't care and left my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Just the same  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I never thought I lost consciousness. I was just free of pain. Watching from ceiling.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed like hours.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No change  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No change  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A stairway that I did not climb. I moved up the stairs with the 2 beings at my side.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My great grandmother,  who passed when I was 11 years old.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm,     I was in a beautiful garden with colors of flowers that were very vibrant. I could hear water flowing nearby.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense love and peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I became aware of need to help all mankind.  

  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No.     I knew that I just had a baby. I also was aware of wrongdoings in my life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  I was fully prepared to enter through the gate because of the love and peace surrounding me. I was pushed back to earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I knew that my great grandmother was my guardian angel, she told me so. Jesus has been in most of my life  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am child of God  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It is more than I ever thought at age 21.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain.   I knew that my Lord was near. The love was great.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I just know that there is only one God and I will be in his presence one day.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew that Jesus was nearby. I did not see him.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have no fear of passing.  I know who I belong to. I know where I am going. I spent 40 years as nurse.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love one another, and help each other.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     It is waiting for me. I will never say otherwise.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I was given information to live by, and never to reveal to anyone.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was given information as to events to come in my life.  

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I was surrounded by immense love.   

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I have had one more NDE at age 60.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am compassionate and loving to all.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I am grounded in my belief of the Lord.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My great-grandmother is my guardian angel. Everything she told me has happened.  There is more to come.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first, no one believed me.  They said I was hallucinating. No, this is real. I have never swayed in what happened to me. People are now more open to hearing about this.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     It was as real as breathing.  

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It is still crystal clear, all I saw and heard.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was told never to reveal certain things told to me.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None. Thank you.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ginger_m_nde_9544.html