{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ginger_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Ginger M NDE 379","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ginger M NDE 379  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ginger M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1349 Ginger M NDE 379  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was twenty-three years young, vacationing with girlfriends in Florida. Beautiful white sand on a beach that stretched as far as the eye could see. My friends were sunning themselves while I splashed in the sea - it was soothing, wonderful! I was caught in an undertow and tried to swim against it. I'm not an experienced swimmer. Too far out to see the beach, I panicked and tried to swim harder and became very fatigued. There wasn't a soul out there that I could see. I had thoughts of dying all alone - what a shame since I hadn't really lived yet. I was unsure of time and direction.

Suddenly I could no longer feel my body, which was weird, since I had been shivering with fear and cold just moments before. I was only aware of an exquisite sense of warmth and peace and the brightest, most golden-white glow enveloped me. Then it felt as if I travelled through a sort of tunnel, and I viewed what looked like brief film clips of my life up to my present age. I could even see expressions on the faces of family members. Next, a man sailing a small boat asked me, 'What seems to be the problem?' And I replied that I was not able to swim to shore. I do not remember getting in his boat, nor do I recall sailing to shore.

My memory is only that of waking up on the beach surrounded by the lifeguard and onlookers. I recall being in an ambulance and the paramedic slapping my face, encouraging me to stay awake. I felt bereft! All I wanted was to find that beautiful warm and serene place again and never have to leave it. Some months later, I became interested in the metaphysical. I read about the mystery schools and other religions and philosophies. I was curious about things I never thought to question before.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    near drowning  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Near drowning - caught in an undertow.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had no physical form - instead I was all consciousness, experiencing something unusual. Did not feel like a dream state either. Most perplexing!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Aware of the experience, but couldn't feel physical sensations.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Felt like I had been gone for hours, but my friends didn't say they missed me!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All was strangely quiet.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a sense of travelling or flying or moving through a darkened tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     A young man appeared in a small sailboat - had no idea where he came from.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   So incredibly golden-white - as if I travelled to the sun without the heat.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity, comfort, joy, acceptance, peace, love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A very fast succession of film clips from my life - family members I took for granted who are important to me now.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wanted to get into the boat that appeared seemingly out of nowhere.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No longer feared death; open to different religions and cultures; more universal love.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No basis of comparison.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Automatic writing, guidance, can sometimes read other people's thoughts, healing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All the above listed could be described as the best - there was no 'worst part.'

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They think of it as an interesting story. I don't know if this story has influenced anyone.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Wish I could experience it again!    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ginger_m_nde.html