{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ginette_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ginette M Probable NDE 8206","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ginette M Probable NDE 8206  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ginette M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						4290 Ginette M Probable NDE 8206   					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Born to an unmarried mother, she left me in care of my grandparents. They loved me, but she didn't. Grandfather had died. I missed him. I remained with grandmother. We became very poor. 
  				    
                    Some time later, I fell sick and lay in bed. I was almost unconscious. In the afternoon, suddenly my body levitated out of bed and went painfully through a narrow channel on the top left corner of grandmother's bedroom. I reached a place where words escape me to describe. There was  strong light, like if I were bathing in sun rays and a physical well being. If you pardon my example, like an orgasmic feeling of every cell in my body.

                     But suddenly I fell back in bed, almost roughly, as I felt rejected. I jumped and jumped up on the mattress, trying to go back were I just came from. No success. Tired with my efforts, I ran out of bed to the kitchen where grandmother was surprised to see me up. She  was explaining to a neighbor that the doctor said I wouldn't survive the fever. I ate a good meal and ran out to play with my friends. Grandmother couldn't believe I was cured.

                     I never mentioned this experience to anybody, until in my fifties. I read the same thing happened to others.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1938

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness.        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   My grandfather had just died. I caught a bad flu.  Maybe subconsciously I wanted to rejoin grandfather, but I am not sure. It is my adult interpretation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain.  I was 7 or 8 years old. I do not remember if I heard grandmother say to the neighbor that I was  dying when I was 'up in heaven' or later when I joined her in the kitchen  after coming back.  I felt pain going through this narrow 'bowel', then my body somehow sensed the experience.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I’VE NEVER experienced anything near this feeling again.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I cannot say how long it lasted, but long enough to remain in my memory as unforgettable

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Before the experience I was unconscious

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot remember any noise during the experience, except perhaps the one the bed made when I was 'rejected.' But this last detail might be imaginary.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through the tunnel twice; in and out back to bed. Each time feeling myself squeezing through it

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like I was surrounded by the sun. There was  no heat, but it was  the brightest light possible.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Never have I experienced  anything close to this  in my 85 years.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was highly elated.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   Brought up by a Protestant grandfather and a Catholic grandmother

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain.     I was seven or eight at the time. Later in my life, I felt somehow fascinated by religious people, and a compulsion and necessity to not to elude church frequentation. But it might be superstition, I don't know.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Sometimes I feel I can see through people, but that might be my imagination.

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Irregularly practicing Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     At 8 years old I had few beliefs. I thought I was in heaven. Then back to earth, and very disappointed.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     When I pray, I often mentally refer to that light, asking 'its' protection for my loved ones and myself, as if it were God. Maybe it is. Could God be a powerful supernatural light?

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Yes     sometimes I feel I can see through people, but that might be preposterous

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Sometimes I feel 'things' that my environment doesn't feel. I rather guess some details that often prove right, but not always.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is surnatural

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was unforgettable. The experience was so strange and unexpected that I dared not mention it to anyone until I read that I wasn't the only one.  It was unforgettable. So strange and unexpected that I dared not mention it to anyone until I read I wasn't the only one.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel like or dislike to certain persons, without any logical reasons, but maybe everybody is like that.  And  I also feel 'protected' against evil, in some way, but this might be wishful thinking.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My body felt the physical experience of sensing pain going through this narrow channel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    decades later, when I read in a magazine someone disclosed the same story, I then disclosed it to my family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.  Immediately after, I tried so hard to jump to the ceiling, levitate and repeat the experience. Since I was a child, I did not think of  the experience for years until I read that I wasn't the only one. I could never FORGET the light and the feeling of elation that I had felt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It was so stunning. I can NEVER forget something like what happened. It is strong and strange and wonderful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I sometimes think I bring luck to people that I like and don't dislike me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How could my soul have escaped my body, when I sensed the levitation and the discomfort passing through the narrow channel, like a baby's body coming out of its mother's? Or does the soul has same feelings as human bodies?          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ginette_m_probable_nde.html