{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gina_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Gina R NDE 3113","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gina R NDE 3113  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gina R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1116  Gina R NDE  3113  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was 103 degrees outside and I was lucky to be wearing jeans this 25th day of June, 2003. I was leaving a friend's apartment and planned to cut across an eight lane road. It had dividers so I wasn't that worried. Apparently, my timing was off and so was the driver that hit me. All I remember is that I had gotten to the middle divider and stepped halfway up before I felt a force pull me into a direction leaving me in the dark momentarily. A car going forty-five mph struck my body and I could sense the projection occurring before it happened. I could protect myself throughout the accident while learning I could see myself being pulled to a safe place. I don't know where I went just before I got hit. That is why I feel an angel of some sort was also involved.

While lying on the hot burning pavement, some people tried to help me and all I could see was how my life flashed in front of me an image of me not walking and of dying in the hospital. While in the hospital, I felt I was in a deep sleep from the exhaustion and impact of the accident but really the morphine was working too. I developed pneumonia in one lung and was getting worse. I was in an unconscious state and then in and out of consciousness. I was without food too. I managed to connect my broken cell phone and call out for help. I thought that I'd heal faster at home and did. The doctor said I might not walk for at least three years and I was walking by one year.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    06/25/2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I think I flew about fifty feet. I landed on my tailbone/back after rolling up on her hood and windshield. People don't normally survive being hit at forty-five mph while crossing the street.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Upon leaving my body just before I blacked out and the car hit me did I feel I was at my highest level of consciousness and alertness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I had a pulling force associated with darkness. I had peripheral vision and outside of that I could see phenomenon happening.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I could sense the loudness of traffic intensified and smells too.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     But it was dark and 103 degrees of sunlight was shining down on me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     It was an angelic presence that was there to help save me.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Upon waking up I did see light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went someplace protected and nice on a beautiful level and when I awoke it was as if I wasn't injured.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I did not know what happened because the lights went out but afterward I felt tired and alert. I felt the burden of healing and how long it would take.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned to have more patience crossing the street.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Keenly, I could see myself on the hospital bed and walking on crutches.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I have more faith.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have more faith.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have faith. God is Love in the Highest Power and Creator of everything. He is my Savior Lord Jesus Christ.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Some of my family and friends feel sorry for me and my left leg has a deformity to it.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I was on psychotropic medication. It was as if my body knew I was about to be struck by a vehicle while crossing the street. I blacked out just before it happened and didn't feel a thing at first. She was going forty-five mph and it didn't even phase me. My first reaction was to get up as if I had just fallen down.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have some limited ability of telepathy and have tried telekinesis. I have REM (rapid eye movement) too.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I feel I would have hurt more or died if I hadn't been levitated or forced into a dark funnel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    About a month later I remember running into my teacher who told me that people don't survive the accident I was in. He was astonished of my survival. Some people have a hard time believing me and I sound like a fib teller.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     My experience was definitely real and I viewed it as being special to survive since not too many people come out alive. I suffered only a broken lower leg.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     My experience was definitely real and I currently feel that I am not alone in the sense of angelic beings existing to help me survive.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I was taking psychotropic drugs at the time which could have affected my judgment and I believe I had a type of heat stroke from not enough fluids while taking Lithium.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gina_r_nde.html