{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gina_nde.html","mytitle":"Gina NDE 85","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gina NDE 85  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		1gina_nde.html  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Gina NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						474  Gina NDE  85  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

During the car accident, I can remember feeling and sensing my body rolling with the car. I remember flying through the air and landing softly on the ground. The whole time I felt like I was watching a movie. After I landed on the ground, I remember thinking that I should scream, so I screamed a slow, calm scream. I remember being in intensive care before the surgery, and a man of the cloth (that's all I know as there was no face, just a presence) took my hand and told me I would be all right after the surgery. When he took my hand, energy passed from him to me. I could feel it go through my whole body. I wouldn't let go of his hand, so he gently pried my hand off his. 

The next thing I knew, I was passing through a tunnel towards a very peaceful and beautiful bright light. I was met by moving forms that were pure energy. It was such a beautiful, loving place. I remember loving it there, and feeling astounded by the love that I was receiving. I reviewed my life, and I did the judging. I went back to when I was about two years old. I know I was given all types of information, but now I don't remember just what it was. But sometimes, I just know things and I don't know how I know them. It’s almost as if I have an additional sense.

I had no choice but to return; I didn't want to and I begged to stay. I was told that I had much to do before I could return.

When I came back, there was an angel, a glowing bright light, at the foot of my bed. It stayed there as I recovered. As my health improved, the light faded and became more distant.

I was very upset that I had to come back. In fact, I thought it was because I was such an awful person that even God did not want me.

I told no one of this experience until I was in my thirties, after seeing an interview with James Moody.

Background Information:   

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    August 1971  

NDE Elements:   

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death car accidentI had dreamed of the car accident for three nights in a row. Each night the dreams gave me more details about the accident, until finally, on the third night of dreaming, the dream was of my funeral. In it, I was up in a tree trying to let the people attending the funeral know that I was not dead. The only difference between my dream of the accident and the accident itself was that in my dream, my friend Bill was in the car. The day of the accident, Bill got out of the car to let me in and decided not to go with us.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  During the accident, I did not feel any pain while I saw my body smashing against the vehicle and onto the ground. When I went through the tunnel, I had no physical body as such, but was aware of an energy field around me. Was it me? Or my body?  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert and conscious of my surroundings and of the presence of others.  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No     

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    When I went through the tunnel, the forms spoke. But, not with words. It was more like with thoughts.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was a long tunnel with a bright, peaceful light that wanted me to come to it.  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I knew them, but their appearance was not the same as it had been when I knew them as humans. It was like they were pure energy, but I knew who they were.  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was very bright, but did not hurt my eyes. It was welcoming.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was completely at peace; I felt a knowing feeling that I was returning to where I had come from. Also, I felt complete, pure love. And after returning, I felt very sad that I had to come back here.  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Sometimes I just know things to be true. I can sense certain things. I can get people to call me by thinking about them; and sometimes I get the feeling that something is going to happen, and it usually does. Sometimes my dreams carry warnings about future events.  

The experience included:      Life review  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was in a room with others present. I reviewed my life and made judgments on it. The judgments were not harsh, it was more of an acknowledgement of what I had done that was not right. Everything I learned has been helping me to live my life since then. I received knowledge, and it comes to me when I need it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I became aware of future events in my personal life, not on a worldly base. I can sense danger/warnings from family members. I know when something is going to happen before it does.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was forced to come back. I remember begging to stay, but I was told I had much to do. I feel that I was told what I had to accomplish, but unfortunately, I don't know what that is now.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:   

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   I always believed in a God or spiritual being  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     After the accident, I knew that we are responsible for what we say, what we think, and what we do to ourselves and others. We will judge ourselves. One of the biggest 'no-nos' is to kill, meaning killing others or ourselves.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

After the NDE:   

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   There are no words in our language that can describe the experience accurately.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I think I have always had a gift, but since the NDE, I'm more in tune with my gift. I can remember a presence coming to me when I was about two years old. He stayed with me until I was about thirty-two, and then told me I no longer needed him.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was knowing and feeling the love. There was no worst part.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people have accepted it. Mind you, I only discuss it with people that I think want to hear about it. For me, it's not a matter whether they believe it or not, it's just a moment of sharing. They can take it any way they want to. I don't defend my experience. It's what happened, and no one will convince me that it was caused by drugs for pain, or that I was dreaming, etc. I know deep in myself that this is real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I went to a woman who helped me relive the NDE. It was a wonderful experience. I could feel that bright light on the right side of my face, and I went through the tunnel again, but just for a very quick second. After I awoke, the woman that led me through the relaxation exercise was crying. She told me that my face had lit up, and I had been so radiant.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gina_nde.html