{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gina_nde_2143.html","mytitle":"Gina NDE 2143","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gina NDE 2143  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gina NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						602  Gina NDE  2143  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  On both occasions a being of white light appeared to me, took my hand, and took me to a door that opened on its own. As a child, I remember I had to climb three steps to arrive at the door and in the last experience I didn't see any door. I went directly to the place of light where you don't step or walk - you float.

In the second more recent experience, I remember first seeing a dim tunnel where I saw various deceased people I knew, one of whom touched my feet. I left those people behind in order to ascend accompanied by the being of light and go to the place where one floats. I did not see anyone there but I felt caresses on my head.

I also remember that my family members were in the hospital room crying and I, despairing at seeing them suffer, wanted to return rapidly. I remember on both occasions that the voices of the doctors and nurses resounded in my head, and while I was ascending, the voices faded back but I continued hearing them. (I don't know how to explain this. It's as if you were a million kilometers away but you took a carried microphone in order to hear). In the second experience I remember seeing my husband all upset and praying that I would not die.

I also remember a place where there were objects, people who looked like angels, animals and plants. The strange thing about all this was that EVERYTHING had life and eyes. I also saw beings dressed in black capes who, when they saw the being who was holding my hand, bowed their heads - as though they could not look at his face - or perhaps out of respect.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1975 & 2004  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident  Surgery-related   Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Accidente at  4 years old. Una caida de 4 mentros de altura  A los 33 años accidente con riesgo de perder la vida.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Upon awakening.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     In the second experience I remember first passing through a place of little light where there were many deceased beings known to me.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't remember communicating with them, but I do remember that a being known to me touched my feet.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very white light. The place was very white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Si. Era como salir del cuerpo y viajar hacia arriba. Primero ves oscuridad y cada vez ves mas claridad al subir.  El lugar donde me vi era enorme y los seres flotaban.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       When I remember the childhood experience my emotions are clearly of fear and anguish. In the second experience I felt much love, much peace and much happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the sensation that I had to pass through this experience in order to remember the way toward the light and help the beings who have already died and are lost in the place of little light. Sincerely, I don't know why because even today I don't understand how I can do it, but this is something that stays etched in my mind.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance, intuition, and dreams that are premonitions.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was significant because since then I have not be able to get this experience out of my mind. My life has changed completely since then.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real. It is an experience that if I were to tell you about would seem a fantasy. But whoever goes through a similar experience knows that it is real, and returning to this life and remembering, makes this earthly life even more difficult to live.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Do you see yourself as the same body during this experience? Do you see in color or in black and white?     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gina_nde_2143.html