{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gina_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Gina J NDE 5266","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gina J NDE 5266  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gina J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2759 Gina J NDE 5266  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At first, I was afraid. I couldn't breathe, and I was worried for my life. Then I went through a brief period of haziness - a fogginess of consciousness. Then everything was clear, there was no pain or fear. I was being pulled down a tunnel of color. I can relate it to the colors and shapes in a painting by Piet Mondrian. At the end of the tunnel, I was told that I was dead. It was just a voice, not a family member or a being. I was fine with this information. Then there was a threshold - like a doorway, but not a doorway. 

My first real memory (I say real because the clarity from the moment I was at the doorway was a clarity I've never experienced) is of feeling like it was the first time I'd ever really been alive. In my mind, I instantly knew the meaning of life and the grand plan, and I was thrilled. The plan was so perfect - something no human mind could conceive of. Everything made sense. My place in it made sense. It was as if I'd just been away; I was rejoining this life. Like I'd come back from vacation, and was now getting back to work, or back to reality. Beyond the threshold, I saw a transit system of some kind. I saw water and I saw chains on a craft on the water - like a futuristic Disney ride. I made it halfway through the threshold, and then was jerked back down the tunnel of white, yellow, red. I was much clearer on the way back. I even told myself that I had to remember the secret of life that people needed to know the truth. 

When I opened my eyes, it was gone. I was lying there trying to remember. My mind could remember every scene of what happened, but not that one most important thing. I felt like I was not allowed to have that knowledge here, like, if we knew, we wouldn't learn what we needed to learn. Life is a school, nothing more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  drug overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I overdosed on drugs accidentally.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Towards the end of the tunnel.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Towards the end of the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was much clearer. I could see that I had no body, but I could feel my shape. For instance, I took steps, but when I looked down, there were no legs. Everything was very clear and bright. My mind was conscious of everything; it was enlightenment!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only sound I remember was a voice telling me I was dead. It was a female voice - I don't know where it came from, but it didn't go through my ears, it was just in my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was sucked through a tube of color and light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     A voice told me I was dead.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But I wouldn't call it a light, I'd call it clarity. I passed into clarity.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i saw some sort of transit system.  i had the impression of others there, but i was so focused on the amazing information i was getting, and so excited to get on with it all.  i couldn't focus on bodies.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, excitement!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     l learned the great plan.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A threshold - like a doorway, but not a doorway.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Again, not immediately. I'm now Buddhist, very spiritual. I've had other experiences since this one - profound dreams and realizations. I'm a vegetarian now, and I don't drink. I've spent time in India and Asia, and I practice meditation.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Buddhist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Again, not immediately. I'm now Buddhist, very spiritual. I've had other experiences since this one - profound dreams and realizations. I'm a vegetarian now, and I don't drink. I've spent time in India and Asia, and I practice meditation.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew the grand plan, the meaning of life and my place in it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not for a while. But now I can only be with very spiritual, open minded people who treat others with respect and love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Something was revealed to me about the purpose, the meaning, of life. I was thrilled and couldn't wait to participate. I felt like it was something that no one here had figured out yet, and we needed to know. But I was not allowed to retain this secret; I lost it on my way back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can now dream the future. I always had a little ability to dream of people when they needed me, but now my dreams are much more detailed and spookily accurate. However, they still only relate to me and my life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the feeling that I'm part of a greater world and plan. That I fit in, in some integral way. That I'm here just for a time and will get back to what I'm supposed to be doing when I'm done here. I was struck by the fact that I had no thoughts at all about my family here; I was not a bit worried for them. Like, this isn't really real at all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've told maybe two or three people. I'm careful about whom I tell - only those who I feel will believe and who need to hear the message. I think they found some comfort, not sure if they believed or not.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen TV shows on the subject. Mine was not at like what I had seen. Actually, I was surprised by how wrong they had gotten it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     From the start, I knew the experience was 'definitely real.' It never occurred to me to question the reality of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     From the time it happened until now, I've never doubted that the experience was 'definitely real.' It was the most real thing I've ever experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While meditating, just before going from mild meditation to deep, I experience the same kind of swoon (brief fogginess) that I experienced as I entered the tunnel, and then, similarly, I pop into a greater clarity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gina_j_nde.html