{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gina_ch_nde.html","mytitle":"Gina CH NDE 2134","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gina CH NDE 2134  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gina CH NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						570  Gina CH NDE  2134  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I can only tell you that it was dark, cold and very scary. I always thought I would see a light and someone there. There was nothing, not anything. I kept fighting to breathe. I kept hearing people around me, but it was as if I wasn't there anymore. Not in the same place as them.

It became quiet. At that point in time, I began praying, begging, pleading, bargaining, I wanted one more chance to prove myself. Although, I always thought I was a good person and a Christian. When the paramedics brought me back, I was numb. I was terrified, but relieved. I still dream about this and have a hard time coping with the experience.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 06-20-03  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I didn't know, but I was full of sepsis.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to more in tune to what people around me were saying and how they were reacting.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When everything became black, and I heard them say that they lost me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I couldn't see a thing.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first I could hear everyone and everything, especially the fire department getting there, and then, when I was at that point of begging for a second chance, I couldn't hear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A black, fast, cold tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     It was as though my life was flashing before me. My children's faces, my husband and the good life I had.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Methodist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Trying harder to be more spiritual  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am terrified of this happening again, although we all know we are going to die. I pray more often and try to live life as though I am supposed to.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was the worst possible feeling that one can imagine. I could hear my children screaming and crying, but my body was frozen. I couldn't see or talk. I could hear the paramedics saying we lost her. I then started to see a tunnel of darkness, which was very cold and uninviting. I was terrified. It was such a feeling of evil. I remember trying to physically grab others, to take them with me. Although, I couldn't move. I prayed at that point and begged God to give me another chance, to please let me live and not die in front of my young children. I was not ready and begged for his mercy.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A few loved one's have passed in my lifetime. I often dream about them, and they come to me in my dreams.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All I know, is that I need to live life to its fullest and not take anything for granted anymore. I hope God will be there for me when it is my time again.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke to the chaplain in the hospital. He clearly said Jesus wasn't there, because it wasn't my time. My husband is very supportive.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was so scared and depressed.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes        			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gina_ch_nde.html