{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1giancarlo_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Giancarlo N NDE 4721","mylang":"de"}
          	        Giancarlo N NDE 4721  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Giancarlo N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2463 Giancarlo N NDE 4721  					  				  			          			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was travelling by bike when I was hit by a car which continuing its run literally climbed on me causing me several fractures including the most serious cervical fracture of the 4th and 5th. During the investment, I was dead. A few minutes later (I think minutes) I saw myself from above and the car raised by the tow truck, a nurse, who then I identified at the hospital, who tried to revive me, and a priest who gave me the last rites on the street.

Then I saw a huge bright light that was not blinding, indeed very nice.  I saw a kind of obstacle and then the return at a speed rate that you cannot describe. I was shouting my dissent while I was running through a tunnel and finally the revival. I again went into a coma at the hospital during my hospitalization but I have never seen again the light.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  incidente stradale  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Traffic accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Absolutely no physically and earthly, maybe if it's possible to say astral then I would say since I think I was dead.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Light, light, light everything had forms even though it was only light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     But distinctly the tunnel was clear during the return even if I repeat at an unspeakable speed rate.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   About eight.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     come 8

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Tenderness for the people who rushed to try to revive me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It seemed the real dimension which is due to us.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The huge light at the end of the tunnel, and the speed rate of return.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Maybe sometimes I can hear things but I do not know whether it is due to this or is it just intuition.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was angry but without knowing who or what was not to be there. In that moment I considered it like a denial, but must be considered that I was sixteen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I would say almost since I woke up from the coma, the reaction of some people consisted in incredulity, others were envious not realizing that to live a tragedy that nearly destroyed two families it had to happen a thing like this.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Literally 'damn it's all true'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Because I am growing some doubts arise and this is why I came to this website. Let me know if in your database there are stories from people who have had NDE experiences and were born by c'sarean section, because if it is so, I am not able to tell if it is God or something ancestral but I would say, considering what I experienced, certainly this is not at all.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?        Let me know if in your database there are stories from people who have had NDE experiences and were born by ceasarean section, because if it is so, I am not able to tell if it is God or something ancestral but I would say, considering what I experienced, certainly this is not at all.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I do not know.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1giancarlo_n_nde.html