{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gerry_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Gerry M NDE 4049","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gerry M NDE 4049  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gerry M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1987 Gerry M NDE 4049  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I do not at this time have the time to finish this so I will submit this now and perhaps tell as much as I can about it at another time, if I feel that there is any interest in my experience. This is almost an Omni-present thing where the knowledge gained through that experience continues as if I have a special channel of communications to the 'other side' or something. Very difficult to explain in only the time I now have available to me. I apologize for this and sincerely hope that you do not think I'm just messing with you, as I'm not - what happened to me was as real as me sitting here typing this up to submit it to you.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer of 1967?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Other 'My mother was there and had been employed as a Registered Nurse.  She told me afterwards that she had searched for a pulse, breathing, any signs that I was still alive and she thought that I was dead.'  My mother, who had been employed as a Registered Nurse, could not believe that I was unharmed. TOTALLY unharmed, after falling off the peak of our garage roof and having no breath or pulse. She brought me to the doctor against my wishes and the doctor could find no signs of injury anywhere on my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'd say that it was probably when 'He' was trying to talk me out of coming back by telling me things about my future, all of which have come to be as 'He' said it would, except for the cause of my 'real' death - so far.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The only part that had 'normal' color was the area behind the 'tear' in space, or time, or whatever it was that that was behind the person I was speaking with. This tear opened up as I began to go towards this person. I could hear children laughing, playing and it looked like what a nice park here on earth looks like - nice green grass cut short, trees, blue sky and clouds. Everything else was basically different shades of the color you see when you close your eyes outside in daylight.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could still hear my mother screaming my name 'back on earth' and this is why I couldn't go with 'Him' then, as I told Him so. I apologized, cried, laid back down in my body (though I never once felt that I was doing anything but standing straight up) and just like that I was back here, in my back yard where I must have ended up after bouncing off the ground and 'leaving' before I hit the ground again.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I went back before going through that 'tear' into the 'park'. As I was leaving my body a tearing, vacuum type of sound and feeling passed through me and I thought then that if I exited my body completely that I wouldn't be able to go back to my mother who judging from the sound of her voice believed, or feared greatly, that I was dead and gone. I believe that I was dead, just not gone yet?

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Many were in a line shoulder to shoulder to my left and that line of people went on beyond my vision, but the one I was speaking to was to my right and higher, or bigger, or both, than the others. It was also obvious though I have no idea why it was obvious, but it was obvious that the man to my right was/is THE authority there. There is no doubt in my mind that 'He' was someone who when He spoke, you listened, period. I even told that to my mother when she asked why I hadn't responded to her screams after telling her that I heard her the whole time. I said, 'I was talking to Him.' She wondered whom, dad, who was nearby? 'No, not dad - Him!' I could sense that He was still there and was beginning to think that my mother was blind or something.  When I turned to point Him out to her, He was no longer there, and where He had been would have put him floating about six or seven feet off the ground with His body half in the garage and the other half of his body out of the garage, sticking out through the roof of the garage.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw both darkness outside the 'tear' and a bright, sunny day inside the 'tear'.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I left "early".

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness for my mother, sadness that I couldn't go with 'Him' but other than that no fear whatsoever of anyone there, but I was for a short time afraid for the person who 'disappeared', until I was reassured that he was okay, and that he just wasn't here, or there, anymore.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not enough time to go into all of that right now.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was around 7 years old and had no solid beliefs yet other than what a 7 year old has been taught in Sunday School or church.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I don't believe in separate divisions within ANY religion of ANY kind.  The whole idea that there can even be such divisions is absolutely ridiculous to me.  Nonsensical crap is what that is.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As I said previously, I have been getting accurate premonitions ever since.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Got to go for now, sorry.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The 'laws' of gravity had no 'authority' there. One person 'disappeared' right before my eyes. I didn't know if others and I were actually 'speaking' or communicating through some kind of telepathy, mind reading, thought implanting, or what? I learned things about the future that have come true time and time again and continue getting what I have been calling premonitions about future events and people.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Premonitions and information that suddenly came to the front of my mind

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many years passed because my mother threatened to punish me by grounding me if I ever spoke about it again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because it WAS real, it IS real and it WILL BE real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because it WAS real, it IS real and WILL BE real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Dreams.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gerry_m_nde.html