{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1geri_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Geri R NDE 5142","mylang":"de"}
          	        Geri R NDE 5142  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Geri R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2677 Geri R NDE 5142  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On March 7th, 2011, I went to see my endodontist for what was supposed to be my final root canal. In the month prior, I had the root canals, plus one extraction. On this particular day, I decided to bring my daughter with me to my dental visit for support. It made be a little less nervous bringing her because she was a registered nurse and was allowed in the treatment room watching the procedures. I was considered a slightly high-risk patient because of my allergies and sensitivities to local anesthesia, and so we had to purchase from our pharmacy plain lidocaine, which was all I could use medically to complete these series of dental treatments. Once the dentist used the first ampoule (capsule of lidocaine) I started to feel numb and he began drilling and filling the canals. I noticed it was taking longer than usual and the lidocaine was wearing off rapidly, so he injected a second ampule and continued working. Midway he was stopping and taking x-rays and again the lidocaine started wearing off, so a third injection was given and at that point, the dentist decided he could not finish the root canal because the tooth was so badly decayed it would have to be extracted.

I was horrified when he mentioned that and by the time, he explained what the extraction would entail, and what my options were in terms of implants or partial dentures, the lidocaine wore off again. So here comes the fourth and final shot and that's where my life changed I heard my daughter talking with the doctor about routine things, but I could hear their voices echoing, and I couldn't understand why.

Then I felt myself slipping out of my body, again I heard my daughter's voice saying, 'Mom, mom, come back, where are those paramedics?' I looked at them working on me in the dental chair, but I was moving forward. I had had enough of the pain and the tugging and the forceps and the pulling and the bleeding I was floating towards a beautiful golden-bronzed light. It was there that I saw my mother and my husband holding hands smiling at me, they looked so happy and at peace. I wanted to feel that my mother smiled at me and took my hands and for that brief instant I felt it, I felt the peace and tranquility, and it felt so good. Without talking, I was able to understand and communicate with mom and Philip. I looked towards my right, I saw a big door that was closed.  However, the cracks of the door showed a bright white light, and I felt the presence of people behind that door, pressed up against it waiting for me to open it. I wanted to go, but my mother took my hands, swung them back, and told me I had to go back, for my son I had to go back.

It was then that I found myself in the dental chair, crying with tears of happiness and I told my daughter I saw grandma and her step-dad and it was beautiful. I told the paramedics it was afterwards in the hospital that my daughter told me that I had completely flat lined for about a minute, I totally bottomed out, heart rate dropped, totally unresponsive.

I even remember hearing my dentist saying that he didn't want to do any more patients because his nerves were shot with what happened here today. My daughter couldn't believe I heard that because I was unconscious.

I am so happy that I was able to have this experience and validate the dearly departed and the afterlife and the beauty and peace that await us all, when the time comes.

Although as I type this I am still having dental challenges, I am grateful to be alive for my children, my business, and myself. I know now that my mom and my husband hear my prayers and thoughts and they watch and guide and bless me and my family, I am at peace now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'march 7, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   About thirty seconds after I felt myself leave my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About thirty seconds after I felt myself leave my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother and my husband who both just passed within the last two years.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   First I saw a bronzed golden light shining down on my mother and husband. Then I saw specks of a bright white light peeking through a large door.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peacefulness, happiness, even a little worried as I felt myself slipping away.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I go to church now once a week and I don't tell anyone it's my personal time to reflect and meditate and thank God for all his blessings and joy and for giving me a glimpse of the afterlife.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I go to church now once a week and I don't tell anyone it's my personal time to reflect and meditate and thank God for all his blessings and joy and for giving me a glimpse of the afterlife.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Seeing my mother and my husband together being happy and pain free.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seemed to be healed of my IBS/stomach ailments. I am able to eat things now that I have not been able to enjoy for the past three years.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my mother and my husband together being happy and pain free.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People cried, some told me to spread the word, others were fascinated.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew that it existed as I had bought a book a few years back - 'Into the Light'.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1geri_r_nde.html