{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gerardo_nde.html","mytitle":"Gerardo NDE 8202","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gerardo NDE 8202  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gerardo NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4285 Gerardo NDE 8202  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have been living in Australia for about 13 years. I was home alone because I asked my wife to go and buy me a diet coke. The store was 300 metres away from home. I estimated she would have been back in about 15 minutes. 

  				    I tried to kill myself by strangulation.  There was terrible  pain. My eyes were bulging from the blood in my eyes. The neck was bleeding at the time due to the hold of the long string.

                      My passing over was immediate.  I found myself in a place of light and  brightness. I was submerged in  white light. I was seeing myself from different angles. When I arrived to that place, I found myself with hands open down along the legs. I was  amazed at that time by the place I was in. There was a stair with walls  lit by white light. I felt the stairway was narrow and I immediately refused to climb it up. In that instant, I thought, 'Here is GOD. The stair is narrow. Therefore my Lord, I'm a sinner. I don't feel the strength with me. I'm afraid of you.' I began to go up the first two steps. It was all brightness. I could feel my consciousness  come back and found myself lying on the floor of the bedroom. 

                      I removed the long string and started breathing again with great  difficulty. After a while, I could breath better. Half an hour later, my eyes began to get back into their socket. I began to psychologically relax.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-6-2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Suicide attempt       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening home.  I tied a rope around my neck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   during those moments. I felt it inside me as if I was looking for a way to explain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       my consciousness was very alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time involved was that which I needed to explain.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have seen and felt my soul move into brightness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was waiting there and felt a pressure to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything in a whiteness as it was as soon as I arrived.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     Consciousness and to give explanations

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt an urge to explain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     It becomes normal trying to meditate with my own consciousness.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   not frequent

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   believer

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I disagreed with myself in that moment but very close to all of you.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     There is nothing comparable in eartly life,  it is at the time of passing over. Nowadays, I feel I live in a much more tranquil mood and no more in disagreement.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     normal

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes sensibility and great carefulness towards the others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   right now I really think so.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.   I would have never even minimally imagined to find myself in front of the existence

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        consciousness

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife, but I prefer to talk about it further again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I explain what I felt during those moments. I believe it's very probable, certain, that many human beings are much more prepared than me at the time of passing over and about how to explain while in a state of awareness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.      I can explain my experience to you without any burden on my conscience

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       sensibility progress towards mankind

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gerardo_nde.html