{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1geraldine_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Geraldine O NDE 338\/20531","mylang":"de"}
          	        Geraldine O NDE 338/20531  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Geraldine O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						488  Geraldine O NDE  338/20531  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 338  					</p>  					

I fell asleep sitting in my chair at my desk. I awoke later to see my granddaughter there in front of me playing with the cat. That is the last conscious memory that I had until I woke up in ICU. There are other things though that are in my mind. Blackness, soft and not frightening. I knew exactly where I lay on the ground. I could see myself but not with my eyes. It was more like with my mind. I asked a question, 'What happened to me? Did I have a stroke?' That is the last very clear memory that I had of the experience but there was more. I was not alone. All I can remember now is a color against the blackness. Not the type of color one would expect. It was a weathered cream color.  Sort of like the color that one would expect the tattered robes of Jesus might be. I can't say that I saw Jesus or any specific individual. I remember a presence and a color and although I am not sure about this there seems to be a vague presence of doors. I remember communication but I don't remember what was said. The only thing that I can remember is a very deep feeling that the number 3 was very important. It was what I was supposed to remember. Always remember the number 3. That is it. I know that I experience communication with someone and I want so much to remember it all but all I come back with is the number three. I have a daughter and two grandchildren that my life revolves around and very possibly the number represents them and how important they are, I just can't remember enough to be sure.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    10/07/00

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death I had a cardiac arrest due to chemical imbalances in my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was on the floor. I was looking down at myself from about two feet above, but I was not seeing with my eyes. Later I learned that I did fall exactly in the place and position that I seemed to be aware of.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      None. I have no memory of the actual attack or two days after

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I was in a very dark place but it did not seem to be a tunnel and I did not leave that place.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See above

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes the black place was very distinctive, not like the blackness of night but more like black velvet.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      At first confusion. Then the feeling that I was learning something very important.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     As I said I can't seem to bring it to consciousness but I am very aware that something was communicated to me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     YES but I can't consciously remember what I learned. I know I was given knowledge but it is making me crazy trying to remember it consciously.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   My conscious memory of the experience is vague. I am very aware that much more happened than I can remember. It is like waking up in the morning and remembering that you had a dream but you can't quite remember the dream itself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I died.   I died.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My daughter. She is interested

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Only that I am curious to know if others have had this same type of experience.

</h5>Experience Description 20531  					  					

I had had a difficult night. At 6:30 AM I was sitting in a chair watching my granddaughter blow soap bubbles at the cat's face. I remember leaning forward to tell her to stop. The next thing I knew, I found myself in a thick grey fog. I was struggling to get through it. Suddenly I broke free and I was outside of my body looking down at myself laying on the floor next to my open closet door. I was laying on my left side. I was standing or floating above my body but I still had a body separate from the one on the floor. I remember stretching out my hands in shock and saying ‘What happened? Did I have a stroke?’ I remember feeling very shocked. I remember then turning my spirit body and leaving.


Next, I was in a very black place. It was not frightened because I knew that there was nothing out there in the darkness. I was just black velvet. I don't really remember much after that until it was time to leave. I found myself being sucked backward through a tunnel. I could see the light that I was being pulled away from and there was someone who seemed to be standing on a platform on the left side of the tunnel. It was as if they were seeing me off from a train station and I could hear their words ‘Remember three, remember three.’ The next thing I knew I was waking up in an intensive care unit at the local hospital.


I am still working on remembering three, but among the things that I have remembered is that time does not really exist. It is just a measurement used by we so-called living people.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    10/17/2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death I stopped breathing and had turned blue with no pulse when my daughter found me and began trying to resuscitate me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was me. The same me. I actually saw my hands when I raised them in shock.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The same as it is right now.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Only that I came back with the knowledge that time is not real.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The voice of the person seeing me off.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Just the one person who spoke to me.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw the light as I was being taken away from it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was shocked at first discovering the separation. There was no fear at any time.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I now know that time is not real.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Material things have never been very important, but there are even less now. I’m not sure if this is from the near death experience or just a part of getting older.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have many psychic experiences. More now than ever.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the confirmation of an afterlife.  The worst was dealing with eight year old granddaughter’s trauma at seeing me die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some were interested and others not at all.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have awakened during the night to find myself floating over my bed. This has happened two times.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1geraldine_o_nde.html