{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1georgia_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Georgia S NDE 2325","mylang":"de"}
          	        Georgia S NDE 2325  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Georgia S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						684  Georgia S NDE  2325  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had gone to a doctor at a nearby treatment center for a sinus infection that I had had for two weeks and that wouldn't go away. He prescribed an antibiotic. I told him that I usually didn't take antibiotics because they upset my digestion, but he said that that particular one wouldn't. So I took it.

After taking it for four days, I became ill one night in the middle of the night. I woke up with a fever and terrible stomach pains. At one point, I got up to go to the bathroom and passed some blood. I also had a terrible headache.

I woke my husband and said I was going to lie down on the couch in the living room to try to go back to sleep. He came into the living room with me and laid down on the other couch, to be near me. I was shaking pretty badly and in a lot of pain, but I tried to fall back asleep.

As soon as I closed my eyes, I left my body. I didn't know where I was, but I wasn't sick. There was a bright white mist all around me. I felt very calm. I remember thinking, 'Well, this is interesting. Where is this?' Then, out of the mist stepped the pastor of the church we had been attending. I was so glad to see him! But he didn't seem glad to see me at all. He looked very worried and scared and kept waving his arms around as if he was trying to tell me something. Although his mouth was moving, I was having trouble understanding what he was saying. I felt a little disappointed that he didn't want me to visit. And I said something like, 'I'm just so happy to see you! I've missed you sooo much since you passed away.' And he nodded his head furiously at me and I said something like, 'Uh, oh. You're dead and I'm here. I must be sicker than I thought!' And he nodded at me again. Right at that point I literally slammed back into my body so hard I fell off the couch. I was so weak at that point that I couldn't stand up and had to crawl over to the other couch and grab my husband's ankle and whisper, 'Hospital.'

My temperature was 104 when I got to the hospital and it turned out that I had pseudo-membranous colitis with hemorrhaging and clostridia. The antibiotic I had taken had wiped out all the 'good' bacteria in my bowel and cause an overgrowth of clostridia. My intestines were becoming gangrenous. I was very sick for a long time and in a lot of pain and very weak. But my own doc pulled me through.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Approx. 1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness      Acute reaction to antibiotic medication.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I would say 'uncertain' because, at the time, I had no idea how sick I actually was.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt most alert in the white mist.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity was greater than usual.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear what my pastor was saying even though he was apparently talking to me. My usual hearing is excellent.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My pastor and friend walked into the mist to see me. I knew him - he had been a dear friend. He communicated to me that I was more sick than I realized and had to get help.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder, at first - in that misty place. Then gladness to see my pastor and friend. Then panic when I realized the possible condition of my physical body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was very touched that my friend went to that trouble to let me know I was seriously ill and needed help right away.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband right away. I told my kids about it later on. They found it interesting.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read Raymond Moody's book. I don't think it affected my experience. There were no tunnels or anything like he described from what I remember. I think my experience was just what it was. But I'm glad I had read about NDE's because I realized that that was probably what my experience had been.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is as real to me shortly after and even now as it was to me when it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't understand this question.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1georgia_s_nde.html