{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1georgia_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Georgia Possible NDE 3917","mylang":"de"}
          	        Georgia Possible NDE 3917  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Georgia Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1856 Georgia Possible NDE 3917  					  				        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was twelve years old and on a vacation with my family. It was at the height of the summer and very hot. We were visiting my grandparents on my father's side who lived in a village in the Middle East. I was bareheaded out in the fields in blazing sun. My family and other relatives were preparing for a picnic. We were having a barbeque. But I was awful tired and just wanted to rest all the time, and I was feeling so cold. My father told me to stop being so mawkish and behave. He didn't realize how sick I actually was. Finally, one of the adults persuaded my father to send me home. It wasn't that far from home, about half a kilometer, but I was feeling so bad at that time and hardly remember how I got home. There were my uncle and his wife. They wondered why I came home. I told them that I was so very cold and wanted to lie down.

The last thing I remember when I still was awake was that several blankets were put on me because of the shivers I had.

Until this very day, I remember the meeting with the incredibly kind figure who wore a long cloak or mantle. I think it was a male figure, maybe an angel, but without visible wings. I clearly remember the question he asked me, 'Are you ready to cross over?' I knew somehow that there wasn't any return if I did that. I almost felt embarrassed and ungrateful to the friendly figure when I said, 'Mom and dad need me, besides we will go back to Sweden in a few days.' I don't remember if I said that in words or by telepathy. Immediately after that, I woke up. My grandmother was trying to lower the fever by using large rhubarb-looking leaves on my bare body.

Six months after this experience there was buzzing in my ears.

Eight years later, due to my education, I came in touch with the book 'Life After Life' by Raymond Moody. I can guarantee that the book gave me shivers of recognition. Finally, I realized that I had had an NDE. Unfortunately I can't remember any tunnel. Just the light that was out of this world, and the meeting with the figure (or angel).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Other solsting  I was unconscious and had a very high fever. Before that, I had a powerful shiver. I have never been that cold despite the heat of 40 Celsius in the shadow (in July).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I met the human-like being in the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I met the human-like being in the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no sense of time and space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was 'crystal clear'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can't recall any kind of sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It's possible but I can't remember.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I have already described that.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There are no words to describe that. I just can't find any words.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     minns ej

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A harmony that I never felt before or after the NDE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I can't remember.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     My concern for my parents made me not to cross the limit (even if I had wanted to).

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I fully believe in ONE Maker. Death is given to us fairly, that truth no one can deny. But what's to happen after that no one knows, and it's not meant for us to know either. There's a limit which science is not allowed to cross (luckily, man would only misuse it as with everything else). But the holy Koran actually talks about different dimensions and boundaries that separate the dead from the non-dead. My NDE has made me to a Seeker.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I fully believe in ONE Maker. Death is given to us fairly, that truth no one can deny. But what's to happen after that no one knows, and it's not meant for us to know either. There's a limit which science is not allowed to cross (luckily, man would only misuse it as with everything else). But the holy Koran actually talks about different dimensions and boundaries that separate the dead from the non-dead. My NDE has made me to a Seeker.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I can't remember.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I experience that people see me as a 'dreamer'; they don't understand, don't want to understand. I often feel misunderstood. They will never understand until they themselves stand there!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Hard to put in words something that powerful.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Humility, empathy, love and respect for all the creation of God. From the smallest to the biggest.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I will never forget the feeling of harmony due to the event, either now or then.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Eight years later when I recognized myself in Raymond Moody's book 'Life After Life'.  I was only twelve when I had the experience and nineteen when I told others. I felt that I wasn't taken seriously. I have never really met any understanding. I just think to myself, 'You just wait until the day comes when you're standing there yourself.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was only twelve at the time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I was only twelve at the time I can't recall if I thought of it as real or not. I only remember that the experience was very real just when I had it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never had a dream or something similar that surpass this experience, and I often dream at nights.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I have had an OBE (Out-of-Body Experience) on the verge of sleep and wakefulness, but that's not the same.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Love for the Maker and respect for the creation is the only thing that can save us all from destruction - that is what I have learned from my NDE.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'm satisfied with the questions that were in the questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1georgia_possible_nde.html