{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1georgia_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Georgia P NDE 6332","mylang":"de"}
          	        Georgia P NDE 6332  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Georgia P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3080 Georgia P NDE 6332  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was pregnant with my first child; from my fourth month on I kept having problems. I was pretty much on bed rest. During my seventh month, I was resting in bed, when I sensed that something was very wrong. As I stood up, a lot of blood gushed out of me. My husband took me right to the hospital. I was only half-conscious and not coherent at the time. I was taken into the operating room, where I died.

My mind became clear, and I found myself going into a very dark tunnel. I was one of the bright stars shining in that darkness. I had no body: I was floating in darkness. I heard a male voice telling me I needed to make some changes in my life, and for that reason, it wasn't time for me. My mind was like a fast elevator reviewing a whole lot of different aspects of my life. It was going faster and faster as I tried to figure out what changes that I needed to make. He told me that the next time I arrive there, when I see a bright tunnel, I will know I have fulfilled my life by making these changes. Before I was sucked back into my body, he made sure to remind me of this again.

As I arrived back, I could hear people around me saying, 'She is going to be okay! She is back!' I did lose my child, but I know I will see him again.

QBackground Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.    Other: loss of blood  I was seven months pregnant, and had been bleeding non-stop.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like my eyes could see everywhere. I knew they were closed but I could still see in all directions at once.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember that my mind was clear, even clearer than it usually is; I was very aware of my surroundings.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the point when I went into the dark tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was never-ending.  Prior to that, I did not know what was going on; I was not even conscious.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard voices in the background, diminishing. Then I heard a male voice clearly, as if it were inside my head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the darkness there were bright lights that looked like stars and I was one of them.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First I was scared; then I became calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I felt as if this male was more then aware of what my life was about and wanted me to see it too

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Life is what you make it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was a male voice that I heard, and it was very calming. I felt safe.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     making changes to my life...

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     it was like a world that was forever ending

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was aware of a male I felt a trusting and understanding with calmness

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably existsÂ  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   For me to make changes in my life.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     it was like learning from your mistakes and making a difference

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     yes to make changes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     difficulties and things that would make me stronger

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     yes ...my feeling for love was a forgiveness

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am a happier person. I don't make judgments of others. I believe that everyone and everything in this life has a meaning. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am more open to making a difference and giving instead of always wanting.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I will never forget it was inbedded into me

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt as if this male that was speaking to me was more than aware of what my life was about, and he wanted me to see it, too. I have a feeling that my purpose in life is about changing things to make me a better person. The feeling I got was that love brings forgiveness. It was like the world is never-ending.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about 3 years afterwards.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe the experience opened my eyes for the first time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My mother told me about something that happened to her as a child. She had an experience similar to mine.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I will never forget it.  It has been embedded into me. I was aware of a male and I felt calm, trusting, understanding. Difficulty with things in life would make me stronger.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1georgia_p_nde.html