{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1georganne_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Georgeanne M NDE 20817","mylang":"de"}
          	        Georgeanne M NDE 20817  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Georgeanne M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						621  Georgeanne M NDE  20817  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was having on and off high fever for the past two weeks. I went to see the doctor a week before but nothing happened. I was getting weaker day by day. On that particular day, I decided to go to another doctor. He gave me an injection and medication. Later that evening, I was feeling a bit better. After staying in my room for two weeks, I decided to go out to the night market near my campus. I was still weak, but I needed fresh air. My friend accompanied me and we walked to the night market. While my friend was busy choosing a shoe, my fingers started to tremble and I started to feel dizzy. That's when I fainted and fell to the road. Suddenly, I was floating and saw my friend screaming for help. That's when I saw my own body lying on the road. I couldn't believe my eyes and I started to scream, ‘am I dead,’ but nobody seemed to hear it. I saw crowds start gathering around my body. That's when I felt some sort of energy pulling me away from the crowd, sort of like sucking me out, then I turned myself and saw a bright light, too bright, but beautiful. I didn't know how to describe the light. I turned back to look at my body and at the same time I was floating away, towards the light, leaving the crowds at the roadside.


I was floating towards the light so fast. It was like a pathway with bright white light and along the pathway on both side there were colors. Some sort of colorful flowers. It was very beautiful. It felt like heaven. Then I started to cry. I told myself that I am too young to die. I don't want to die, not now. This is not the time for me yet. That's when I suddenly felt like I was being push away from the light. I was floating fast the opposite way and from above I could see my friend was holding my body and crying. It is like energy had pushed me back into my body and I woke up, sweating like hell. My friend told me that I fainted but I couldn't explain, even to myself, what actually happened that day.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'February 3, 1999'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     I had on and off high fever for 2 weeks.   High FeverI was having on and off high fever for the past two weeks when this experience happened. I went to see the doctor and later that evening I fainted before I could take my medication.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very clear.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Sounds of wind. More like a breeze but very calm. Very soothing, actually.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I am sure it is heaven. It is so beautiful and peaceful.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw my friend screaming and crying and I saw crowds gathering around my body.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a pathway with bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All my five senses were working very well.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt confused and scared.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in God is stronger now.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   I actually saw my own body lying on the road and my friend was screaming for help. I am scared that nobody will believe what I had experienced.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was to see my own lifeless body. It is scary. The best part is to feel heaven.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1georganne_m_nde.html