{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_w_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"George W Possible NDE 4308","mylang":"de"}
          	        George W Possible NDE 4308  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George W Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2123 George W Possible NDE 4308  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up in my chair in front of the TV and I felt very strange. I dialed 911 and started talking about space and how the government was covering so many things up about life and space. I had never felt this way before and it was very strange. I have always been fascinated with space but never had distrust for my country. The police were sent to my home and I walked outside and fell into a seizure shortly after they arrived. I can remember parts of the trip to the hospital but not much.

Once I was out for the count, I started seeing strange beings and my life on another planet with all my friends and family. They told me that we live forever but we had to go through death after every life. I was told our death provides light and energy to the universe and after we provided the light and energy for a bit we come back. I saw so many things and it was like they all happened at once. In the beginning, I was very afraid, bad things kept happening, but as I progressed through the experience, it became more and more peaceful. 

When I was younger, I had a dream that I died from a tree falling on me. When it hit me, everything went black and I thought great death is a black void where you are alone with your thoughts. This same thing happened to me that night except I traveled past the dark into beautiful places. I know this story is all over the place but that's how it was. I can remember a beautiful city where five beings stayed and I learned that everyone is connected to those beings. We are part of a global consciousness and we are all connected to one another. I saw so many things and traveled so far it is hard to grasp. I keep getting flashbacks of it as I get the memories from it back.

The doctors didn't treat me until the next morning and as soon as they gave me the antibiotics and the anti-seizure medications, I woke up but I felt like I had almost died. I know that my heart rate was doing some crazy things but once I was out of it, I was fine. The seizure damaged some of my muscle tissue and now every day I have pain. Part of me really wants to go back to the beautiful places I saw and see the colors and wonder again. Another part of me is still afraid of death. Reading other people's experiences freaks me out because they have similarities. Anyway, that isn't everything but it's a glimpse into my experience. I hope it helps or just adds to the proof that there is a bigger picture to death.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/19/09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    seizure and pneumonia  Other I had a seizure and pneumonia at the time.  I think a seizure and pneumonia is life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end of it I felt like I was totally aware and able to deal with my fate but then they medicated me and I felt sluggish again.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The sounds and colors where amazing. The city I saw was so beautiful I can't even begin to describe it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything going on around my body plus the sounds from where ever I kept going. I kept going back and forth from my body to the other places.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I meet all sorts of beings and strange creatures not all of them were nice. When I got to the five beings that connected everyone, that was really cool and peaceful.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the blackness there was a light but it wasn't the tunnel everyone talks about. I felt lost and every time I got closer to the light things got a little better.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was on a beach that was more beautiful than I can describe. Plus the other world I was on was a strange purple color which i found strange because purple is the color of my birth stone.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt so many emotions. I can remember at the end I woke up a little and saw my brother and never felt more love for him in my life. Not all the emotions were positive but they were not all negative either.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I think I am still stuck in the life review part sometimes. I haven't been the best person and have sinned a good bit. I feel like I am supposed to realize that I am my own worst enemy and I need to forgive myself and move on. My grandfather was my judge in the experience and he told me to come back and honor my father.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The health problems I am having now. I seemed to know they were going to happen my dad even said I was going on and on about muscle spasms, which I have now, and they didn't start until three months after the hospital visit. I also saw a picture of a pirate and was with my nephew when I saw it and six months later, I was babysitting my nephew and he turned on the TV and the team that was playing had the same pirate as a mascot. I never saw that team before.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray a lot more and I know there is a higher power but feel like that power is not what I thought. Honestly, it raised more questions in me than I had before and at the same time answered some, it's frustrating.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray a lot more and I know there is a higher power but feel like that power is not what I thought. Honestly, it raised more questions in me than I had before and at the same time answered some, it's frustrating.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This is bad to say but I swear it's true. I was surrounded by angry people for a bit and someone kept asking who was responsible for 9/11 and they told me it was not what we thought, that there was a lot more to that day than the public knew about, and I never once thought that there was a conspiracy. When I got home I was so drawn to 9/11 and still can't stop researching it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I really let some of my friendships go and was not always a loving son. I am trying really hard to show the people in my life that I love them and how sorry I am for all the wrong things I have done. It is a work in progress but I really do care a lot more than I did.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I forgot to mention this earlier but it my experience I was part of the five beings I talked about earlier and we traveled through space exploring other worlds and searching for the meaning of everything and it was peaceful and chaotic at times but I never felt threatened. There was good and evil in the universe. Things were better than they are on earth but also in some places, it was far worse. My dad was a bit worried because before I came completely out of it I kept saying Star Trek was real. I guess that was how my primitive brain tried to understand what I just went through. Also the city and the beach I saw were so beautiful it overwhelmed me. The colors of it were more brilliant than anything I have ever seen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was going crazy about everything the moment I woke up in the hospital. I told everyone that visited me.  I still share it all with my friends and family. They don't seem to understand or it scares them. My mom handles it well and she really helps me deal with all of it. I wasn't ready for all of that it still freaks me out.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The days after it happened I was convinced there was life after death and that even though it was scary at times I was truly lucky to have seen and done what I did. I just hope when I go back I can find the peaceful places again and avoid the chaotic places.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All I can say is it was more real to me than anything I have ever experienced in my life. I feel to this day that I was in a fog before and now my mind seems clearer to me but it still scares me and I am still trying to get a handle on all the things I saw because like I said they were not all positive.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to say these questions are helping me remember a lot more and I am thankful that I took the time to do this.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think this was great it helped me remember some things. I haven't shared everything because some of it bothers me but thank you for giving me a place to put this down.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_w_possible_nde.html