{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"George Possible NDE 6368","mylang":"de"}
          	        George Possible NDE 6368  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3111 George Possible NDE 6368  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first thing that I remember is I was being confined or locked up in a room, unsure of where I was, and someone was taking care me and administered a shot. I heard suspicious voices talking in the background, saying 'He won't know anything that has happened, he will just pass on'. 

All of a sudden, the next thing I know I was in a clear plastic capsule and brought to the military unit, to a sergeant. I was taken out of the plastic tube and was placed on something that I would describe as a slab (escalator/elevator in movement). I told my sergeant that someone gave me a shot and made it look like it was just my time to go. 'I know that I am not dead,' I told the sergeant. 'Because I remember clearly that they gave me a shot and what they were saying after they gave me the shot. So can you investigate this and make sure I am not dead and look into this suspicious matter?' The sergeant looks into it and comes back and says 'George, you are fine and you're all set, I will send you upstairs and tell them what you told me'. Then this slab goes up and takes me to, what I would describe as, heaven.  

Lying on the slab and looking up at this vision, I see young people all dressed in white and children up above in the clouds, waving their hands. They may not have been waving but instead doing something with their hands.  The children looked like images that were penciled in, but with only their face and hands, and no body was visible in the images. I then looked down (not that I was higher up or far above them), so I just glanced down at them. I see people were floating on the sides of this tunnel.  The people were all white.  They were all facing and drifting towards the bright light that I call a 'bulb'. The people disappeared into that light/bulb. They were floating towards it but their feet weren't moving, similar to an escalator and traveling very slowly. One guy on left hand side of wall turned around and looked at me, he looked familiar and he was the only one that turned around to look at me, and then turned back. I am not sure who this person was, only that he looked familiar. 

After that, I went back down to the bottom floor, and they said 'George, while you are here, we want you to fill out this information. Write all of it down, so when you come back here, you won't have to do this again.' I just knew that I could bypass this part of equation and go directly to the bulb/light next time. The tunnel people disappeared into the light: they were floating but their feet weren't moving. This event was so real to me that it doesn't seem like it could have been any dream. I was in the operating room for what they told me 16-18 hours. They were going to give up on me but they didn't.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  'Coma in hospital aortomesenteric bypass surgery with vein graft. No blood was coming to my stomach, new tube had to be put into it, surgery took 16-18 hours'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It seemed the same.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Nothing

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I saw the tunnel but I was outside of the tunnel, lying down on the slab. Looking down just a little bit I saw the other people gliding through the tunnel into the bulb/light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I think the guy that looked back at me while he was in the tunnel could have been my sister's accountant. He had similar features but I'm not certain.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderful. I didn't care if I was dying.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I am still wondering that but not absolutely convinced.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience was wonderful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I always share my experience with others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not very much, just hearing about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_possible_nde.html