{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_n_nde.html","mytitle":"George N NDE 7434","mylang":"de"}
          	        George N NDE 7434  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3785 George N NDE 7434  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went through prostate surgery and was recovering in my room. I was asleep.  I woke up feeling dizzy and as I awoke further, I felt very wet under my back. It was soaked in blood and I was bleeding. I pushed the button for the nurse and said I was feeling very sick. Then everything felt like a dream. Many nurses rushed in, lights went on and after a lot of fuss, they ‘called it’ and put me on a stretcher heading for the Intensive Care Unit. 

During that occurrence, I felt like I was about to die. I prayed the Sh’ ma on the way to the Intensive Care Unit. I was bleeding-out and everyone's faces were in horror. [Editor’s Note: Sh’ ma or Shema Isr'l is a Jewish pledge of faith to One God.]  When I realized all the new faces coming into the well-lit room, I felt myself going up, as if I was in an invisible elevator.  I was hovering.  I actually felt like I was bobbling above my bed. I remember that I was able to hear and know what everyone was thinking and saying all at once. There were many doctors and nurses in that room at the time. I remember that I knew that one doctor understood what was happening to me while the others were speculating. I came back down and said aloud, ‘Listen to him! He understands’. I said that I was in such great pain and that the release of all the blood, which I learned later, had pooled in a painful pocket, was very good and I got great relief, as a result.  I didn't go as far as some people suggest. My experience was short but was super-hyper realistic, a super-hyper-High-Definition version of reality. Again, the most amazing aspect was the ability to hear and understand fully what everyone was saying and the ability to say, ‘Listen to this particular doctor he understands’.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Out of body experience  I was bleeding out and had 5 transfusions, my blood pressure dropped below 60.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was extremely aware of my surroundings which had shifted like a gear- shift from what I was feeling (dizzy) when being taken to the ICU. I heard and understood everything being said.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I mentioned above, it was hyper-real. THE clarity was intense, I was able to hear all and understand all of what each doctor, and nurse was saying.  I had the ability to know when this one doctor knew what I was feeling since he was the only one, all the others were just guessing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was hovering above looking down at all the doctors and nurses.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I heard and understood everything at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Much more crisp and hyper-real: well beyond HD TV. The hearing, seeing and understanding were almost one.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everyone's comments and thoughts; I was able to fully analyze and understand all that was happening. In ‘real life,’ I have two hearing aids: too much rock n roll!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       NONE! I felt like a robot.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Conditionally, I understood everything that was going on through a lot of chaos.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I did not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     Just for the first time fully believe that I am not my body. I was fully outside my body and was analyzing conversations like a computer would -- cold and analytical -- super precise.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life. All I can say is that I am not my body. I live separate from it: what that means I cannot say.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   While I just did my best to writing in your boxes, there is no way to convey the crispness and hyper-reality that I felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Again, all I can say is that I am not my body. I live separate from it what that means I cannot say.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    3 days possibly 4

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've read about others who have experienced these things. I was skeptical.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Just hyper-real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_n_nde.html