{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_m_nde.html","mytitle":"George M NDE 139","mylang":"de"}
          	        George M NDE 139  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					George M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						580  George M NDE  139  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was in Costa Rica with close relatives and friends. Snorkeling in the water after spending the day at the secluded beach, which seemed surreal and nearly perfect. I jumped at the chance to go out on the airboat (small, utility-type) and somewhat shrugged off the need for flippers, bringing only a mask. I was on the boat with Esteban, a nice guy in his twenties I believe, also a native Costa Rican to the best of my knowledge and an avid surfer.


Also on the boat was a very attractive woman in her twenties or early thirties who I sympathized greatly with on the trip right off the bat. Her brother is a professional skateborder, so she actually knew quite a few pros, including Tony Hawk. (My close friend is now possibly the top amateur skateborder in the world right now and actually had a short interview in Sports Illustrated that also featured Tony Hawk, who in the eyes of many is the most well-known pro skateborder in the world.)


The third person on our boat was Kevin, operating the boat, who worked for my uncle. Esteban and I both had been drinking moderately on the beach. As we cruised in the boat, Esteban, who had a relationship with the woman, joked casually about pushing her into the water. She, however, took it seriously and did not appreciate the humor very much. On our way back to shore, Esteban and I decided to snorkel on our own, neither of us having flippers. We eventually separated from each other and soon were around twenty to thirty feet apart.


Looking for bigger fish, I swam towards some rocks that stuck about ten to fifteen feet out of the water.  Once near them, I realized that I should have trusted my intuition.  I was soon stuck in the suction of water that normally happens near a rock formation such as this. As I looked up at them treading water, I recalled a story my mother and sister had told me of a young man in my position who was injured severely trying to climb up rocks half this size. So, I tried to swim away from them.


All of the sudden, I realized how tired I was after drinking and being at the beach for the last several hours. I soon became short of breath, which made floating with my head in the water using the snorkel for breathing out of the question. (I tried using it for what seemed like minutes to no success). I was becoming frantic. As I tried desperately to swim to shore, waves hit my face. I was submerged completely several times, taking in substantial amounts of seawater. The times that I could, I screamed "Esteban, get the boat!", and perhaps other things.


Although the sequence of my experience is sketchy, I remember being underwater as past images and experiences flashed before my eyes and in my mind. While I was under, I saw what I figured at the time was the sun. As my knowledge of NDEs grew, however, I began to believe that was the image of a bright, yellow, centralized light. I also vaguely remember seeing myself in the water, but I am not positive of this. Before I knew it, I was being helped into the boat by who I remember to be Kevin, who had picked up Esteban before me. Dazed, we were brought back to the beach. I was lying in the sand for several minutes, dumbfounded about my experience. I also recall Esteban, who was of few words; say that he had nearly drowned as well.


Since then, many things have happened that I believe to be related to this, including my cousins giving me a birthday gift, that following September. It was a picture taken of me with several people in the distance behind me, on that same beach that day, running jokingly in the shallow water. I had nearly forgotten about the picture before they gave it to me, but I vividly remember when it was taken. At the top of the picture, which was framed, were words in script-like font, in white, which are in the sky, that say in all lowercase 'prancing into manhood'. I had no part in creating this caption. My mother's sister's daughters created it, both of which I have been close to since I was an infant.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    August 2001

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     mild drinking (3-5 drinks)  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Snorkeling in middle of day, tired.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I might have seen it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Tired.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright, yellow, centralized.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Hopelessness and hope, fear of death but also acceptance.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     No knowledge of details.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Now yes, then no.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Social, intellectual, and emotional.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Some uncertainties, it happened very fast.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     A book by a NDE specialist Dr. Melvin Morse which helped me to communicate with my deceased father.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I almost died, but I have gained spiritual and self-knowledge.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Marijuana and alcohol.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      My whole life has changed because of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would like to speak with personnel in order to elaborate on my experience.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_m_nde.html