{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_l_nde.html","mytitle":"George L NDE 21905","mylang":"de"}
          	        George L NDE 21905  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1729 George L NDE 21905  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was around 1:30 a.m., and I was driving my grandma's Delta Oldsmobile. My friend Donnie was in the passenger side.  I backed into a parking space and shut the car off.   Then two young men walked up to the car.  They told me to get out of the car.  I guess they were going to carjack it.  One of them went over to the passenger side where Donnie was sitting.  It was August and we had the front windows down.  The kid on Donnie's side quickly reached through the window and got a hold of the keys in the ignition.  We knocked the keys out of his hand and they fell on the floor between my feet. The other kid on my side of the car pulled out a chrome and pearl-handled pistol.  He pointed it at my head.  I got a hold of the end of barrel and he pulled away. I said something like, ‘That's a fake gun,’ because it looked like one I had when I was little. One of them cap guns, you know. Well, his eyes got real big and he shot out the window behind me. It was a four door Oldsmobile, and all I thought at that instant was, ‘How am I going to explain this to my grandma?’  The shooter pointed the gun back at my face. I put my left arm up to block my head and I reached for the floorboard to find the keys. There were many keys on the key ring. My hand fell right on them. When I did this, the kid on my side must have thought I was going for a gun under the seat or something.  He just started unloading that revolver through my open window.  Believe it or not, the one key of the many on that key ring that I grabbed happened to be the ignition key which I slipped in with astonishing grace. Bullets were flying through my window.  I fired the car up and floored it.  As I was pulling away I threw my left arm up to block my head, and thank God I did, because I took a bullet right in the upper arm which shattered the bone.

As we were speeding towards downtown towards the hospital, Donnie looked at me and said, ‘Georgie you're all shot up! Man, you're bleeding everywhere!’  Sure enough, I had been shot twice in the abdomen and in my left arm.  The shots to my abdomen went through my liver and stomach and one bullet had pierced my right lung.  I got about fourteen blocks when I started to feel myself going out, so I pulled the car over and told Donnie to run and find help fast because I was dying.  I hunt, and I know a deer doesn't get far with a shot in the liver.  After he bailed out of the car and ran for help, I locked the car doors.  I got out, shut the door and walked out into the middle of the street hoping a passing car would come by.  None did.  I started to feel myself slipping away, so I laid down in the middle of the street, which was nice and warm because I was getting very cold.  I lay on my back and looked up into the stars and thought of my two year old son Stephen, and who is going to take my place as his dad.  I knew that I was dying. That was my last thought.

Then I died. My soul or spirit left my body at that moment and I went somewhere I don't recall.  Then I was floating with my hand on my mom and dad's shoulders as they were walking down the hallway in the hospital.  My spirit went to the operating room where I was looking down at my body with all the doctors and tubes and stuff sticking out of me.  Only my face was peeking through the ceiling tiles. I was in the ceiling, feeling like my feet and legs wanted to float upwards.  Then I was instantly at the head of my surgery table.  I was still looking through the ceiling tiles when I saw this white shape at the foot of the surgery table.  It was shaped a lot like me. Size, slender, height, everything. Anyway, it slowly laid into my body and worked its way from my feet until it finally disappeared into my face and that's when I came back to life. There is more to tell but I'm running out of time on the library computer.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 8th, 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Criminal attack    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

The experience included:       Light

The experience included:       A landscape or city

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

The experience included:       Life review

The experience included:       Vision of the future

The experience included:       Boundary  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I never talk about it except with just a few people. They were non-believers.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_l_nde.html