{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_k_nde.html","mytitle":"George K NDE 4998","mylang":"de"}
          	        George K NDE 4998  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2580 George K NDE 4998  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On 1-5-2011, at about 7:30 pm. I was home in Leland, Mississippi, with my wife. I began having problems swallowing. I had never had problems like a stroke heart attack before. I went to my wife and said I could not swallow. She started asking me questions and called her sister who lived about fifteen minutes away with her husband. We sat on the couch and waited for her sister and her husband who arrived in about ten minutes. They had contacted two prayer chains in their church. My wife told me later that my eyes were empty and I started saying words quickly - floor, papers, ceiling, and many words that could not be understood. My wife said she was going to call 911 and I said I thought I would be okay. I was still holding my throat.

I learned later that the prayer chains were 'stepping all over one another'. We started the fifteen minute ride to the hospital. I was in the back seat with my wife. My wife's sister and her husband in the front. When I was asked what did I do as a judge, I said 'my ABCs'. When we got to the hospital, I had a grand mal seizure. People started yelling 'code blue'. I did not hear any of this. This is just what I was told. I was in the hospital for three days and was released and am going to another hospital in a couple of days for neurological tests. Sometime between the time that I got into the car to leave my home and when I left the hospital the following happened.

I was smiling and happy with a blank look on my face on the ten minute ride to the hospital. I could not recognize any people, I am not sure exactly about this but I think this happened on the way to the hospital. I am sure that this happened however. I was walking down a path of some sort and was walking with God. He/She was on my left. I was too scared to turn and look at God. I believe I was scared I would turn to salt - not sure - I do know I did not look at God and I do know God was there. I could feel the warmth. I could hear the voice or really feel the voice. It said, 'You are going to be okay. I have got your back. You are going to heaven one day but not today. In the meantime I want you to tell others about this.'

(Little choked up right now.) I have probably told fifty people about this in the last ten days. Mostly by person. Some over the phone. A couple by letter. I am trying not to be obnoxious about this but I want people to know how real God is and how my life has been temporarily spared and how good an experience death is - or how it nearly was - for me. I am so excited about the rest of my life and so thankful - grateful - for this experience. I believe the prayer chains and of course God spared me. I intend to use the rest of my time well. Thank you.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January 5, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'stroke, grand mal seizure'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Stroke and grand mal seizure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During my walk with God.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my walk with God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Things were slow but definite.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I sensed what God looked like. I could hear thoughts of God.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Down a path for sure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I walked with God on my left. He/She said things would be okay and he/she had my back and I was going to heaven and it would not be now and I should tell others what happened.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I could see. I did not see the source, I was afraid to look at God but I think it would have been okay and I wish I had now.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     a peaceful walk down a serene path with my God

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement, gratitude for being with my God, perception, relaxation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Very aware that I was to communicate what happened to me to others and I have began doing that.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Still a Christian just more vocal about it and now I know, really know, I am going to heaven and if I die before you I hope to see you there.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Still a Christian just more vocal about it and now I know, really know, I am going to heaven and if I die before you I hope to see you there.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   I could hear thoughts. I was sure God was next to me although I did not see him/her.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It seems that people want to be around me but they did before. They are not running.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always been a good communicator but telling about this has become easy and, I think, effective.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I enjoyed being next to God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first time was a couple of days - maybe one day - later. My wife was intrigued. Almost all have been very intrigued.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The excitement, the feeling of involvement with God, the desire to help others by sharing, my hopes in helping my family and friends and pleasing God - this is too real not to be real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am going to use this experience to grow spiritually and help others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Would not surprise me if it happens though.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has just been wonderful and I can't wait to see what happens next. I decided not to read your book until I responded to your questions so looking forward to reading the book.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not sure.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_k_nde.html