{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_j_nde.html","mytitle":"George J NDE 6552","mylang":"de"}
          	        George J NDE 6552  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3232 George J NDE 6552  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I ran across an icy street, slipped, and fell in the middle of the street.  A car, which was driving down the hill, either hit me in the street or dragged me by the hood of my coat.  I saw paramedics from above assess me.  They were panicking because they thought I was deceased.  From above I saw them quickly cut me out of my coat.  My spirit or consciousness then departed and travelled to 'heaven' or a place where a being told me 'It's not your time yet, you have to go back and do something important'.  

I begrudgingly returned while in the ambulance and felt a whole body pain like I've never felt before.  I was screaming and crying when the ambulance turned the corner into the emergency room driveway.  The only medical problem I had was a fractured right thumb.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Winter 1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  Other: 'Unknown, either clinical death or life-threatening event'  I ran across an icy street, slipped, and fell in the middle of the street. I was hit or dragged by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was watching the paramedics work on me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Alert to more details of the physical realm and the emotional states of the paramedics.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my body was being examined on the street by the paramedics.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost meaning - no sense of past, present or future.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brighter colors.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not affected.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A combination of faint lights and darkness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared at first and then really peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The being was at the end of the tunnel.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The being made the decision for me.  I was ready to enter this realm but was sent back against my will.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I view my close friends and family without superficiality.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Buddhist and new age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistent with the idea of angels.  Not consistent with having to go back to fulfill a purpose.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My own belief system was open to interpretation at a very young age.  I believe this experience was significant in maturing me way beyond the age group I was in, thereby classifying me as 'weird'.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   At the end of the tunnel there was a being.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Awareness of a being, probably of a feminine nature.  I perceived "her" to be a guardian angel, who has kept watch over me several times after this experience.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was sent back because I was supposed to do something "important"

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists.     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt unconditionally loved in this realm

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I questioned the validity of what I was taught at Sunday school and church.  I questioned blindly following people and institutions - I had a sixth sense about the accuracy of their truths.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was years before I was able to fully express this experience.  I was afraid that someone might think I was 'crazy' if I told this story.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I was only 6 years old, consequently there were many lost memories; this one has stayed with me my entire life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been a very intuitive person and probably was before the accident.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The message that I had to come back to do something important has haunted me most of my life.  I also remember, at that time, being very angry about having to come back and being in excruciating pain.  I've rarely felt as peaceful as I did once I temporarily left my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told people shortly after but, because of my age, they probably thought I was making up a story.  I was not believed or taken seriously.  I don't know if I influenced anybody other than their opinions that I was an odd little girl.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in a daze for weeks, between the pain of my fracture and not feeling like I belonged on the planet anymore.  I really felt disconnected from my worldly existence.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that seeing the paramedics working on me from above was proof that my soul separated from my body.  The last time the voice of the being returned to me 'she' saved me from being majorly injured in a car accident (5 years ago).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Other moderately major accidents, but not with the same detail as the original experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_j_nde.html