{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1george_e_nde.html","mytitle":"George E NDE 6192","mylang":"de"}
          	        George E NDE 6192  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2951 George E NDE 6192  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The moment I lost consciousness, I found myself in an unknown dimension, one that opposes the material world we live down here on planet Earth. Comparatively, it looks pretty much like the obscure side of the two sides of the same coin.

In a matter of a couple of seconds, my body just snapped and I lost consciousness. The next moment, I was being gently channeled towards an incredibly bright, white light. The light had a brilliance that didn't hurt my eyes. Its attraction was so powerful, like a huge magnet that was the size of the entire Universe. It was totally irresistible.

I was hovering and able to move in any direction that I wanted to move my body (or my mind, I should say) and it seemed to me that I was under no restriction; that I could fly away anywhere I wished to throughout that dimension. My mind was at my will and my will was my mind. I was completely aware that I was within the boundaries of what true life really is - a spiritual, mindful, non-dimensional world at the disposal of my consciousness.

So I decided to go on a brief tour and discover the secrets of this unknown world. I was shown colors - incredibly beautiful - but which I just can't describe because I have no words to classify them, and neither do I know of any similar colors.

With excitement, I was looking to find other secrets, when a friendly 'voice' told me that I couldn't stay because 'it was not my time yet' and I had a mission on earth waiting to be accomplished. I had to return to this current earth life of mine.

I didn't want to return and leave behind that amazing world that I had just encountered, but without any bargaining taking place, my will just didn't prevail, and I was back in my aching body, laying down in bed after the physical stress I went through.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  IllnessDrug or medication overdose  That penicillin injection was well past the due date and its contents were completely decayed and totally rotten. The second the product entered my body I start jerking violently through convulsions as my heartbeat rushed out of control well over 200 beat  Other That penicillin injection was well past the due date and its contents were completely decayed and totally rotten. The second the product entered my body I start jerking violently through convulsions as my heartbeat rushed out of control well over 200 beat

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was totally aware that I was not wearing a 'vest', or my body, and that therefore there was no restriction to my will.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the entire experience, which I believed lasted only a few minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was so sense of time, whatsoever.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision during the experience was like being on top of the tallest building in the world on a clear day and being able to see my entire surroundings up to the horizon.  My everyday vision prior to the experience was like being at the bottom of a swimming pool trying to visualize, through the water, the people walking on the edge of the pool.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing during the experience was via a 'mental voice' in my mind but it was sound and clear to my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace and a tremendous sense of personal will.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It's a world, or 'dimension', that equals simplicity and it is therefore easy to understand.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was raised in the Catholic religion but at the age of twelve I had no sense of any religious conscience whatsoever.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't feel the need to practice any religion whatsoever.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   I do not practice any religion since my NDE experience just because I don't feel the need now and never felt before.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     At the age of 12 my beliefs were just starting to form.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I carry an understanding that we are all here for a reason.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     After my experience at age 12 I have been living for 50 years from a second reencarnation with the same body I was born in this lifetime. That is proof enough that reencarnation is a fact and I know (from other sources than NDE) that I have lived many dif

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     As I mentioned before the spiritual and the material aspects of the Universe are connected like the two different sides of the same coin.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was told by the voice that I had to return because I had been asigned a mission to accomplish (although the voice didn't specify what the mission was).  Eight years later (1970) at the age of 20 I started my mission which has been running for 42 years and has not been accomplished yet.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Without any restrictions being aware of the knowledge and purpose becomes paramount in every way.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Every spirit-soul-human being has a path to walk in order to improve and reinforce his/her inner strength.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I had to return to my body in this lifetime against my will, therefore a superior force overpowered my wish to stay.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I carry an understanding that there's a purpose in everyone's life through a personal mission to be accomplished in a lifetime.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was an out-of-this world experience and for that reason, no words have been created so far, to describe, in detail, such an experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This experience has been vividly with me for 50 entire years and it is as real today as it was by the time it happpened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       I developed some healing power with my hands channeled via my mind.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was an outstanding revelation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my partner around 10 years later. Doing so happens to be the core of my mission this lifetime.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I'm able to figure out when I'm awake, when I have a dream and when I have a near-death experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm able to figure out when I'm awake, when I have a dream and when I have a near-death experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   This was my first and only near-death experience so far.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was so real and powerful that I believe no matter what, it will never leave the back of my mind for the time I live.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_e_nde.html