{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1georg_m_nde.html","mytitle":"George M NDE 8133","mylang":"de"}
          	        George M NDE 8133  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					George M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4240 George M NDE 8133  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My NDE happened in 1971. 
 
 I was on a travel vacation with four friends.  I was age 17 and on our way to Spain. We crammed five people into a VW beetle. It was hot and we were squished in the vehicle. 
 
 In France, I started to feel sick during the drive. A friend dug out some older pills, and I swallowed some. A little later, they say the pills are completely wrong, even too old. I progressively go feeling sicker. We stopped on a country road where I vomited on the roadside. I was feeling worse. Then I started running uneasily and aimlessly in the nearby grain field. In panic and shaky from fear, I fell down, lost consciousness and collapsed. 
 
 I immediately left my body. A heavenly calm starts around me. All pain is gone. The movie of my life is running very fast, but very detailed in front of me. All the persons that I once met showed up and waved kindly to me. From above and approximately 10 meters away, I see my body lying in the cornfield. In the meantime, my friends found my body and were standing around helpless. They were making sorrowful and pejorative statements. I'm watching the scene from above in the distance.  At the same time, I saw a bright mystical white light, which is drawing me closer as if by magic. This light was not the sun, which was also shining. The sun was yellowish and unimportant in front of the white light. The white light seemed like a big disk that was multiple times bigger than the sun, but also much closer. In the white light, I assume that there is eternal calm and heavenly peace. I am ready to go there. I want to dive into and merge with this light. In the distance, I hear myself murmuring to my friends, 'Leave me here, everything is okay. Just continue your journey.' In that space, I had unlimited understanding. 
 
 My friends picked me up and were carrying me, against my will, to the nearest hospital. On the way there, I was semi-unconscious. I was dragged into the hospital where they gave me a shot.  Then I went to sleep.  Although foggy-brained, I hear other patients coughing terribly. Have I been in a chest clinic? The next morning I awaken. Then my friends and I continue our journey towards Spain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  ca. 1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose.       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   Medicine poisoning

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It cannot be compared. Complete clarity and comprehension of 'the world'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately, and through the whole experience

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Timeless, simultaneous, without any time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Two completely different states of consciousness

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot answer this question.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Only at the beginning of the tunnel, no passing through it

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In the 'movie of life' all known beings showed up with terrific speed (at the same time).

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     An enormous fast movie of life, very detailed and simultaneous

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The word 'emotion' is an earthly, a human term and doesn't apply to the NDE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Impossible to describe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     An enormous fast movie of life, very detailed and simultaneous

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I wanted to dive into the light, but was held back at an (invisible) border and sent back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Raised Catholic. Left church at 18. Since then I have cosmic thinking and universal thinking, especially during the last decades.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     In 1970, experiences with NDE and OBE were totally unknown.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I had the perception that Jesus would be present.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     As well as, I perceived myself definitely as an individual, but at the same time, everything was connected to everything.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     No personal God. Indescribable knowledge. Indescribable Peace. Love. Limitless.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not at the time, as the zeitgeist (1970) didn't admit these questions, today it's helping me to have a real conception of a beyond.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     Due to my OBE experience, which was unimaginable before (1970), it was clear that there is another reality after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Unlimited Love. Acceptance on the highest level.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes A life that is rather aware and existential.  So partnerships are difficult, as rarely a partner can deal with this.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Indescribable

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th  The event happened some 45 years ago. I can see it crystal clear in front of me, but some details have faded.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There were indeed no experiences whatsoever in 1970 with NDE, nevertheless the event was real for me. As I was very young and erratic, I lost the significance quite fast. Only about decades later I became aware of its importance. My lifelong 'existentialism' could be linked up with this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I deal a lot with these topics. Real - not real, differentiation is in my opinion, arbitrary and due to the zeitgeist, respectively the state of science.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1georg_m_nde.html