{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1geoffrey_nde.html","mytitle":"Geoffrey NDE 2510","mylang":"de"}
          	        Geoffrey NDE 2510  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Geoffrey NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						792  Geoffrey NDE  2510  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was in the backseat of my mother's car and we were stopped to make a left turn and a truck (van) hit the back of the car at about sixty mph. My sister and I, who was in the car (backseat), were thrown from the car. I was thrown, by police reports, one hundred and eighty feet. I know when I woke up I was under a snow-plow wheel and dragged myself out from under the wheel then was out again until I reached the hospital. During the accident, I knew nothing other than a complete loss of time and a floating experience as I physically left the body and watched as a relative (great grandmother) welcomed me. She said to me, 'You need to go back.' I looked at her for what seemed hours then awoke in the hospital. Even though this accident was terrible, the car was beyond recognition, I was never scared. We all walked away. I had two stitches and a fairly bad concussion but that is all. I was discharged from the hospital in just a few hours. No one could believe any of us walked away from the accident. My sister was thrown about two hundred feet from the car but had no experience like mine. She was found face down in a snow bank and thought dead but quickly recovered with just a few stitches as well. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Car accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Hard to say as I was only fourteen but I do know it was mind altering at the time and has changed my life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say upon impact of the accident.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time was to me non-existent. Everything was peaceful at a standstill. Time really had no meaning.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perception seemed surreal and time seemed non-existent.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Perhaps a bit muffled and not as clear as what I know hearing is to me now.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel. It seemed huge as well as welcoming yet moved very slow but time seemed stopped.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     For some reason my great grandmother was easily recognizable to me although I never knew her. Other people were there as well but somehow I knew this woman as my great grandmother which was later confirmed by photos I had never seen.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was all bright and white but not so bright that it bothered me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt sort of blank as if this was a natural occurrence.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I still am not religious.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I still am not religious.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I am not sure I gained anything other than that I needed to live.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not fully sure yet, it is really a more personal experience with personal changes.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Flying out of my body and the slowness or absence of time.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     For a while after I was sort of in a daze about what happened and thought 'wow' there is no need to fear death. Also it was a rude awakening to death at such an early age.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all in some sort of order that seemed to play itself out well.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told only close friends and relatives over the years and they seem to believe me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in a daze and felt like I had just experienced something special.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1geoffrey_nde.html