{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1genny_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Genny H NDE 7462","mylang":"de"}
          	        Genny H NDE 7462  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Genny H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3806 Genny H NDE 7462  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I had my experience, I was in major surgery due to blood clots and an aneurysm. I was not conscious at the time. 

But, I do remember hearing my grandson's voice, right before I was taken to heaven. He said he wanted to talk to nanny for the last time. I remember he told me that he was going to marry his girlfriend and wanted me to be the first one to know, even though I was unconscious. Everyone thought I was dying and the doctors had called the family in to see me one last time. My daughter and her husband, who is a minister, said they knew I was dying and assumed this was the last time they would see me alive. 

When my experience began, I remember being out of my body and floating over the most beautiful flowers I had ever seen. I saw colors that can't be describe because they just don't exist on earth. All of the colors were very radiant and vibrant. I saw trees, beautiful rivers and streams. There was a river with trees on either side of it. I remember being taken aback by how beautiful everything was. I was very happy because I knew I was on my way to heaven. While I was taking in all of this scenery, I felt like I was almost in a trance.

Suddenly, out of no where, a face appeared to me from inside a doorway, or maybe a window. I only saw this person from the waist up. I knew immediately it was Jesus Christ himself! Let me tell you, he does not look like the pictures and paintings we have of him. I have never told anyone about his exact appearance, but if he appeared at my door I would know him. I will say that he has a medium skin tone and dark hair. He looked very kind, loving, and fairly young. Jesus was calling my name. I answered him and said, 'I know I'm in heaven.' He said, 'My child, I can not let you come in.' I asked, 'Why?' I was trying to argue with him. I told him, 'I'm 77 years old. Why can't I come in?' He answered with, 'My child, I have more work on earth for you to do for me.' I asked, 'Why?' again. But that's all he said to me. He did tell me he was going to send me back to the work he had for me to do. 

When I woke up I saw my daughter and another person at the end of my bed praying. I closed my eyes and opened them again and two people were still there. My daughter was praying and asking God to keep here on earth, that she didn't want me to die. She said she still needed her mother. When I opened and then closed my eyes for the third time, there was only one person standing there, my daughter. Later on, my daughter told me there was no one whatsoever in the room at that time besides her. I believe it was an angel.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  march 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had 3 major surgeries within a 3 week period. I was unaware of the first two surgeries. I had an aneurysm during the second surgery and lost 29 pints of blood. Sometime during that surgery, I had my near death experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was much more alert and much smarter! Maybe a little too smart because I argued with Jesus to let me stay!  I just felt better mentally and physically all together.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very alert throughout my entire experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I could tell time was faster and things happened much more quickly there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were brighter, much brighter and everything was in greater detail. I was very aware of this.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear much better!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw Jesus Christ. I only saw him from the waist up. He doesn’t look anything like the pictures we have on earth! I still have a very clear image in my mind of how he looked.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Behind Jesus there was a great bright light. He was glowing himself in a beautiful white light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Beautiful colors that we don’t have here on earth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness but sad when I found out I had to come back. I felt incredible peace or pleasantness, Incredible joy and united or ‘one’ with the world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood everything around me and was much more aware. I wish I still felt that way in this flesh body!

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Jesus

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't want to come back, but I knew I had to do what Jesus said to do.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   i have been a christian since i was 13 years old and have a very strong faith

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   after my experience i can say my faith has increased. i actually spoke with jesus christ himself.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have been a Christian since I was 13 years old and have a very strong faith. After my experience, I can say my faith has increased. I actually spoke with Jesus Christ himself. God does exist.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I met Jesus Christ himself. He had a very gentle and kind voice, almost as if you were talking to a baby. Not loud or angry but a voice you knew demanded respect.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw Jesus Christ. I only saw him from the waist up. he doesnt look anything like the pictures we have on earth! I still have a very clear image in my mind of how he looked.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     its hard to describe  in writing but it sure does exist!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     god does  exist. I saw his son Jesus

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw Jesus. I know there is a heaven for certain!

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I did not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life; my faith is even stronger now. I lost one of my legs during surgery, but I don’t care. I know I will be whole again when I get to heaven.     Moderate changes in my life; my faith is even stronger now. I lost one of my legs during surgery, but I don’t care. I know I will be whole again when I get to heaven.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I saw Jesus. I know there is a heaven for certain!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started sharing immediately. Some people think I’m crazy. Others do believe my story. If they don’t believe, I don’t mind because I know it's true!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I clearly left my body and existed outside it. Regarding universal connection, it’s hard to describe in writing but it sure does exist!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1genny_h_nde.html