{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1geary_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Geary S NDE 5129","mylang":"de"}
          	        Geary S NDE 5129  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Geary S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2666 Geary S NDE 5129  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself leaving my body and floating up to the ceiling area of the room in which the medical personnel were working on me. As I floated up to the ceiling area, I was watching the medical team working to place a tube down my throat so they could pump my stomach. I watched them while they were talking back and forth with each other and working on me at the same time. I seemed to float over the wall.  I was above the hallway just outside the door to the room that I was in. I remember seeing a nurse standing in the hallway, right below me and she was writing something on a small tablet. When she finished writing, she slipped the tablet and the pen into one of the pockets of her uniform. The pocket was located on the skirt portion of her uniform, about an arm's length down. It seems that I began to float back into the room again as the nurse walked through the door. 

I remember seeing a flash of light and the next thing I was aware of was my parents standing over me in a hospital room. The Army had contacted my parents and had notified them of the event of the overdose. My parents told me later that they were told that they could not be assured that I would be alive or dead when they arrived from Oklahoma.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November, 1971'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    An overdose of a prescribed medication...  Other I never confirmed whether I had actually died at the time or not. I was in the military at the time and they didn't share that kind of information with the patients.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was watching the activities of the medical team working on my body below me on the bed.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't remember having a sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors seemed to be normal but the white color of the nurse's uniform and the doctors' coats seemed to stand out to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The only light I remembered was a rapid flash and then just waking up.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Acceptance of everything around me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     No doubt about the existence of God and Jesus, or the existence of Heaven.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No doubt about the existence of God and Jesus, or the existence of Heaven.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood exactly what was going on in the room - from a medical point of view.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't like negative thoughts or actions from other people in my life. I don't care for confrontations - life is too short to put up with it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have been able to go back into my memory and recall events and places when I was less than two years old. This was verified by my mother.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The separation of my soul from my physical body and the peace I felt.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within three to four years I guess. I don't think they believed me at the time.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, I was there and I know what I felt and saw!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have become a believer and I know there is a heaven.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I now I have no fear of death. In the past nine years, I have gone through two heart operations, one for a bypass and the other for a new valve. As everyone in my family was so afraid that I would die, I had no fears at all. They were experiences that I was just going to have to go through to stay vertical and continue being around my loved ones.  The other night I had an experience that I still can't tell if it was for real or just a dream. I was lying in bed and was experiencing another heart attack. The pain in my chest was very real at the time. I found myself not getting excited about the situation, you know like I better call 911 or something. I just lay there, folded my arms over my chest, and thought to myself that if it is time to go then I'm ready. I must have dosed off and gone back to a sound sleep. When the alarm went off, I had no sensation of any chest pain but I did remember the event. The only trouble that I have with it was it real or just a dream. But the fact remains, I was ready for the trip.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It seems pretty complete to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1geary_s_nde.html