{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gary_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Gary J NDE 707","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gary J NDE 707  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  		  				  					Gary J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						232  Gary J NDE  707  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy in August of 1995. I continued to deteriorate slowly over time. On the morning of March 27, 1998, I complained of feeling like I had the flu and lay down on the sofa.


The next thing I knew I was surrounded by total blackness and felt euphoric and very loved, I heard someone calling my name in the distance.  It was the rescue squad calling out to me telling me that they had shocked me three times and unless I showed some response, they would have to stop. I looked around and just saw blackness but I felt I was on a cliff side and KNEW I had to jump across to remain alive. I believed it would be safe to try to jump across, because if I failed I would go back to God. The main reason I wanted to return to life was because of my love for my wife and son. I was totally selfish in that I felt I could not be happy in heaven without them. I jumped and reached out fully to grasp onto anything I could.


The next thing I knew I awoke in intensive care about a week later in the presence of my wife. I asked my wife what happened and she said the rescue squad had shocked me three times without a response from me at that point they called out to me asking for a sign of life from me. She said they saw my hands move. Based on the movement they shocked me a fourth time. The rescue unit said this was unusual and normally they quit after the third try. About two years later, I received a phone call from the rescue squad inquiring about my outcome. The person I spoke with said they had not expected to speak to me because they never had a person recover who had been as sick as I was that morning. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    3/27/98

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully aware, although unconscious in human terms.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Anger at being taken from those I loved but in the presence of extreme love.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Lutheran E.C.L.A

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was making it back. The worst was the fight to return in intensive care.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have, with my wife and son.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, except I am happy to be back. The nurse at my cardiologist stated to my wife and I that the cardiologists refer to me as the 'miracle man'.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gary_j_nde.html