{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gary_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Gary A NDE 2630","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gary A NDE 2630  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gary A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						858  Gary A NDE  2630  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was traveling towards an almost globe of light (a bubble) that I knew contained all that was known. It was very intense and attractive, there is nothing more powerful in needing to return to this, in what I have come to believe is our, before and after life's home - a dimension of energy of all that is, and all that is in are universe. We are all as one, yet as singular as we are in this physical journey, though without the knowledge of everything and the ability of all conceivable and unconceivable conceptual knowledge. In other words, man in all of our knowledge we are not even yet infants in what I sensed from seeing into this light. As I was traveling through this very dark void, I became aware of three other entities. The closest one was traveling beside me, though his being (upper self) was half way up to my waist and his lower extremities were below my legs. The second entity was just below this one closest to me and further out; the third entity was at least two to three body lengths further below the second entity. In my mind, I was communicated to by the first closest entity, who spoke to me (telepathy) that it was not my time and that I had a very long life to live. The way this first entity communicated with me so unbelievably loved, that the expression of his face that I cannot remember anymore was so kind and sincere that even though I wanted to continue towards this globe of light, the understanding of complete compassion of what I felt from this person overtook my urgency to travel any further. I will always remember this signature feeling of love when I meet him again, where time does not count.

Anyways I lived my life kind of reckless, not suicidal (I believe we are here for a purpose) what you expect if you're told you would have a long life, and boy have I taken those words apart and played with them many times over the years. But when I had an accident in the early 1990's, as I had many, that when this unbelievable accident was occurring (though I am not at all afraid of death) I called out loud, 'God don't let me die!' three times, and I didn't. I learned from this last major accident (what happened, the odds of what I was destroying in this last accident could never be duplicated) that I was not being very smart, in that I was told I had a long life but what does that really mean, being a paraplegic, or without limbs. I guess it took a long time to get smart.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1966  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness        Other It was the first time the Hong Kong flu hit.  I remember seeing my mother tapping the thermometer, saying 106 degree temperature, this can't be right and then entering this black void.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was so real.  Yet it wasn't like anything on this earth, and the powerfulness of the light has never been duplicated, nor the true love I felt from the entity.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Looking into the Light, and traveling through the dark void.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see with my eyes in a sense that normal vision with physical eyes could not.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Without pain or fear. I do believe I was experiencing extreme joy in anticipating entry into all that is known, the light.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Sorry it's late, time to snooze - and Thank you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gary_a_nde.html