{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gary_nde.html","mytitle":"Gary NDE 6667","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gary NDE 6667  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gary NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3308 Gary NDE 6667  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was over at a friend's house, sitting on the couch. At first, I felt a very nauseous feeling in my stomach, so I got up off the couch to get something to eat. When I stood up my vision became scrambled, similar to a TV screen. During this time, I felt myself fall back, and then all I saw was blackness, but I was still fully aware and conscious. All I could think about was that I had just died and was freaking out and panicking while praying to God and Jesus to save me.

All of a sudden, I started to see light where I was; I thought I was coming to it but I was rising out of my body. I traveled up towards the ceiling and as soon as I started to see the sky, I began traveling faster and faster until I couldn't really make anything out except the light that began to surround me.  I think this was because of the speed I was moving at. Then I slowed down and came to a circle that was spinning and inside I could see geometric patterns that were all spinning and moving different ways. I thought it was a gate of some kind and joked to myself thinking, 'what is this, a 'Star gate'?   I just went through it. The whole time I was really happy and didn't think whether or not I should be doing it.

When I went through that gate, I went through a tunnel or something that brought me to what looked like a star cluster. I moved through outer space to the cluster. I wasn't in control; I was drawn to it and entered some place that looked like a hallway with stars all around me and lights moving through clear tubes. It looked amazing, I wondered what the lights were, and then the thought of them being souls came into my head. I don't know if that was true, but it felt like they were aware of me. That's when I became aware I wasn't wearing anything and my body was emitting light, but still in human form. I also felt like I had been there before and was familiar with the place, which I thought was weird.  I came to a wall where these things slid down it that looked like robots, they began melting and transformed, they brought me to a room with a being that was made of light. The room looked like it was made of glass, and then a shower of light came down on me that felt warm and euphoric. The being walked to me and it talked to me through my thoughts and emotions. The being was funny and not threatening. I became extremely sad about leaving my family and friends and it felt like I was about to lose my identity. I tried frantically to leave the place and a female came to me that looked like a girl I had a crush on, but it wasn't her; she brought me back to my body. I felt sad and didn't want to leave her.  It was like we had been together before and I loved her.

I saw myself rushing to earth, then I started to regain my vision, while being in my body, and my friend was standing over me waving his hand over my eyes that had still been open.  He was saying 'hello'. He said I was just sitting there with a spaced out look on my face. The experience felt like a long time, but I don't think it was that long. I told my friend that I just passed out and the weird thing was that he said the same thing had happened to him upstairs in the bathroom, but he said he didn't have the same experience and just blacked out.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Other: 'Ate very little for a week, and then ate nothing for 2 days. On the second day it happened.'  Uncertain, I think it was because I starved myself.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself pass through my friend's house and through the sky, and the same thing coming back.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It felt more real than normal everyday life. Life seems like a fog compared to it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed to be happening at once or time stopped or lost all meaning.  Time must have been slower than usual because when I was there it seemed like what I went through had taken 10 minutes or more, but I know I couldn't have been out that long because someone at my friend's house would have noticed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had 20/20 vision at the time and the experience was much more vibrant and real.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All I remember hearing was music. When I talked to the being it was through emotions and thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     After passing through the gate circle I sped through what seemed to be a tunnel. I think it was a worm hole looking at it from a scientific perspective.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The lights in the star cluster; transforming robots, light being and girl all seemed to be living entities, especially the light being and girl, because I communicated with them.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw the light when I began to travel at high speed to the circle. My body was made of light and so was the being. The light I was showered in and the lights in the star cluster and what seemed to be like a boarding station to go into the glass room.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was clearly a mystical or unearthly realm.  I was clearly traveling to outer space from earth, and then transported, via the circle, to what looked like another place in the universe. It wasn't another realm and didn't seem mystical. The place I went to seemed more like it was created by advanced technology.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the darkness I was scared. The time I left my body and was traveling up to the circle, I was extremely happy and laughing. In the star cluster, I felt warm and loved, like being out in the sun. When I met the being and the shower of light came on me it felt euphoric.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I'm pretty sure the being knew I wanted to go back because of my thoughts, and I had someone with whom I was familiar to bring me back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It was not consistent to what I previously thought. I thought I would go heaven and meet Jesus or God and live in the clouds or  another earth like place. Instead I traveled through space and met with a being that possessed clearly superior technology that I had never scene before. I didn't see anything like that till I saw the movie the Matrix, which gave me an extreme panic attack. I even left my girlfriend at the time in the movie theater, because what I was seeing I knew was similar to reality, even though I refused to believe it at the time. It shocked me to the core.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.  In the glass room, the being was of light in human form, like me at the time.  The being of light didn't identify as Jesus to me, even though I prayed to Jesus and God to save me. It seemed more like a worker of some kind.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   The being of light didn't identify as Jesus to me, even though I prayed to Jesus and God to save me. It seemed more like a worker of some kind.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I was not told that I existed prior to my current life, but the place I was in felt familiar and the girl I met felt familiar, which leads me to believe I might have had a life prior to this one.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Nothing identified itself as God, but the place I was in was clearly created by something.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Uncertain, as soon as I went in my body I had an overwhelming urge to help people, and the thought of 'help them' came into my head.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes, just leaving my body confirmed to me that we can exist outside of the physical body. The my light body felt more superhuman like.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I had panic attacks a lot because I was afraid to die and go back to that place and lose my identity and memories.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately, even though for a long time I tried to forget what happened. It's very vivid and I'm constantly reminded of it through art, movies, and other things of that nature. I lived with extreme anxiety about dying for many years till I accepted what happened was real.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I found was meaningful was to know that our real body, the body of light, is vastly superior to our human one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I called my mom right after it happened, in a panic attack, because I wanted her to tell me it wasn't real. After that it was about 5 years until I told anyone because the panic attacks had been crippling my life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real but I denied it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real. I'm haunted by it in everyday life. My panic attacks didn't go away until I accepted it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Art, movies and things of that nature. It feels as if it's directed at me even though I know it's not.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was not consistent to what I previously thought. I thought I would go to heaven and meet Jesus or God.  I also thought I would live in the clouds or another earth like place. Instead, I traveled through space and met with a being that possessed clearly superior technology that I had never seen before. I didn't see anything like that until I saw the movie the Matrix, which gave me an extreme panic attack. I even left my girlfriend at the time in the movie theater because what I was seeing I knew was similar to reality, even though I refused to believe it at the time. It shocked me to the core.

  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the same time, even though for a long time I tried to forget what happened. It's very vivid and I'm constantly reminded of it through art, movies and other things of that nature. I lived with extreme anxiety about dying for many years until I accepted what happened was real.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gary_nde.html