{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail T Probable NDE 4604","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail T Probable NDE 4604  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2326 Gail T Probable NDE 4604  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Assumed severe drop in blood pressure. No medical called. Follow up with PCP next day.

I express this to others as having no body and being nowhere. 'Where' is what we humans use as a reference point. I remember my first thought being, 'No wonder humans are so depressed all of the time, bodies are so Heavy.' I had no eyes but could see. Yet, there was nothing to see. It was not dark, nor light. It just was. I felt as though I could stay there forever and need nothing. I felt that I could just be, and need nothing else. There was such calm and peacefulness that I wanted to stay. 

But I began to hear the concern of others trying to 'save' me. I wanted to tell them that I was fine. Not to worry. But when they were going to call an ambulance, I felt compassion for them.  I had no way to tell them that I wanted to stay a little while longer and then I would come back. I felt complete joy and contentment. Yet, my compassion for the others caused me to come back. I was sad to come back but felt I had to console them and let them know I was okay. 

I sometimes try to visit that place when I meditate, but can never quite get back there completely. I miss it so. I really do. The strange thing is that I didn't experience being out of my body, or looking down on myself. I was just away, somewhere else in complete bliss.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    assumed severe drop in blood pressure. no medical called. Follow up with PCP next day.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   An assumed sudden drop in blood pressure. They said 'the lights were on but nobody was home', and then I just dropped back straight as a board, but they caught me before I hit the ground and laid me down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I first noticed that I had no body. Ah, the bliss. Then I noticed there was nothing there and I felt like I was a dot of being. A dot. Nothing, but everything.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     See previous explanation.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sharp.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Once I began to hear, and become aware, of the others outside of my 'space.' They sounded far away but I could hear them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I went somewhere but don't know where.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Only the light of re-entering the physical world. It was too bright. It hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Please see what I've already explained.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, amazement, and compassion for those worried about me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that I don't know.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that I don't know.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There is no reason to fear death. There is no reason to fear. Of course, I knew from a previous vision ten years earlier that I would return to the great light, that great energy of love/compassion, the great everything. But at the time for some reason that didn't cross my mind. I don't know why.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I just know everything is okay, even when it isn't. It's okay. This isn't all there is and someday I'll get to go there again. To visit or to stay. I don't know which at this time but I look forward to it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I wish I could really remember, or experience, how it feels not to have a body sometimes. I haven't tried to astral project because I have had dissociative experiences in the past and it's not the same. I really miss that feeling. The longer it gets the harder it is to really remember that blissful, blissful feeling.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took a while to share. Some believe me, and some don't.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read and heard about out of body experiences, but mine wasn't like those.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. What else is there to say. I don't have words to really explain it to others, but I understand their doubt. Some express blissful longing to experience it themselves. But I can't make it happened again, so I have no way to teach them how to go there. I'm not sure I should.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Please see comments above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_t_probable_nde.html