{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail R NDE 4162","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail R NDE 4162  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2039 Gail R NDE 4162  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was Friday, October 9th. It was already 10:00 pm when I started experiencing my asthma attack. I thought it was one of my attacks that could be prevented with self-medications so when my husband asked me if I am okay I said yes. It was in the dawn of October 10 when I started to feel a lot different from the usual attacks. I could no longer breathe so I tried to wake my husband and ask for his help. When he saw me, he said that he was going to take me to the hospital and I said yes. During the trip to the hospital, I'm starting to lose my consciousness because the trip seemed to take only seconds. When we arrived at the hospital, the only thing I can remember is that I walked a few steps and then collapsed. 

All I can recall at that moment was that I was lying in an empty space; everything seemed to be dark except the constant flashes of tiny white lights that connected each other. Every flash connects to the next light.  As it goes to the next light, I saw an experience. I know the moment that I am going to die. It's really a strange feeling because we always fear death but when you experience it, there is this feeling of compete surrender, a kind of peace.  I even forgot the people who will be left sad when I am gone. Before I woke up or become conscious again, the flashes of light stopped. Then I saw a man standing waiting and say, 'Do you want to go back?' I said I am tired of breathing. He waved his hand and I saw a lighted candle and start hearing my husband's voice at my side and the voices of nurses and doctors who were attending to me at that moment. God gave me another life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Oct. 10,2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    asthma attack  Other severe asthma attack  Because I collapsed. The only thing I recall was that I was lying in a bed looking at the tiny lights that flash from time to time and everything else is dark and void.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   During the time when I saw the lights.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the time when I saw the lights.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Because there were no sound except the sound of beeping as the light flashes and the voice that asked me if I wanted to go back.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     No tunnel but as if I am lying under a dark sky, empty except for the lights.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He was at the end of the flashing lights. He asked me if I wanted to go back.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Tiny white lights that flash and connect to another light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Giving up, surrendering and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was a flash, I saw my husband and other people, but until now, when I want to recall them, they seem blocked - I can't exactly recall it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I realize life can be taken from us anytime so it's better to be happy and be contented and always do what is good and right.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I was asked if I wanted to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They just listen and are thankful I am alive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a real experience for me and I realize that life is too short so we have to make the best of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I know it was real - I am lucky I was given another chance to live and share the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_r_nde.html