{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail K NDE 4174","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail K NDE 4174  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2044 Gail K NDE 4174  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After feeling intense pain and deep fear during strangulation, I became aware of 'floating' through a dark (PITCH BLACK, all-encompassing darkness) area that had no limits or boundaries. I passed other floating beings, who seemed to be just kind of in suspension in the darkness, or stuck, if that describes it better. All at once, I seemed to be floating within an intense, pure, joyous white brightness that felt like all good things, the most joyous love and a complete sense of peace and contentment. I felt how my actions in my life affected persons around me, both positively and negatively. I know I was told that I have to do something here, but I don't remember what it is. I know, however, that I will accomplish whatever it is that I'm supposed to do. After being enveloped and loved in the whiteness, I had a conscious thought pierce my experience: I don't want to be a murder victim or statistic. Following that it a feeling similar to being on the fastest, darkest roller coaster ever, and then, boom! I was lying on the carpet, waking up. I knew the instant my eyes opened that I had been changed profoundly, right down to a cellular level.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was strangled until completely unconscious.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While in the pure light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in the pure light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had absolutely ZERO sense of time. I could have been there for hours; or it could have been seconds. I don't know. It felt like an entire lifetime in a nanosecond.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things that I saw (the light and the darkness, for example) were MUCH more intensified than what one would 'normally' see in every day life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Intense, inky blackness that led to an all-encompassing light, followed by a brief passage through the darkness again.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     It was more of a feeling, than an observation. I got the impression that I knew some of them, but didn't know others. The ones I did not know felt as if they were powerful, supreme beings of a sort; the ones that I did know felt as if they knew me and loved me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The purest, whitest, brightest, most intense light. Words cannot even begin to describe this light. The light also came with a 'feeling' of all things good, if that makes sense.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A dimensional feeling of purity, brightness, love, forgiveness, as well as a heightened sense of a 'mission' that I was supposed to accomplish here before I could go 'home' to the bright light again.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy. Peace. LOVE. Security. Contentment. Well-being. Sorrow for my actions that hurt people. Humble joy in seeing how my actions affected people in a positive way.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned how even the smallest of my actions directly affect those around me. It has definitely changed how I live my life. I look handicapped people in the eye and talk to them, for example. I try to do good things quietly, to help others. I now work with handicapped children.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Very difficult to describe. During the experience and still, to this day, there was a profound feeling of knowing that we all have a particular place in the universe, we each are here for a purpose and have a 'job' to do. It also completely cemented my faith.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My beliefs became much stronger after I received confirmation of God and His presence.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't ever seem to recapture the incredible events and feelings that happened to me with mere words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Definitely. I 'see' things, both good and bad that will happen to those close to me, sometimes months in advance. I have healing knowledge with regard to my animals (rescue animals, usually rescued under duress) that I didn't have beforehand and couldn't possibly know. I seem to heal from personal injuries abnormally quickly.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience was meaningful and significant on a very profound level. Those effects have continued to drive my life on a daily basis.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After about ten years, I shared this initially with my mother, whom I knew had had several NDE's. She understood and accepted. She is the one who helped me to understand that during the NDE I was given the gift of knowledge.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very simply: I KNOW where I was; I KNOW what I saw and I KNOW what I know. No doubts whatsoever, then or now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, I KNOW without question where I was, what happened and how it changed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_k_nde.html