{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_d_nde_4447.html","mytitle":"Gail D NDE 4447","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail D NDE 4447  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2224 Gail D NDE 4447  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During my surgery, I awakened and was floating. I could see myself near the ceiling of the surgery room.

I was pleased with my appearance and youth. I entered a tunnel near the side of the surgery room ceiling very cautiously, but kept one foot at the outside of the opening. I only wanted to look in. I looked up and saw a light at the end, which was very soft and moved back and forth. Some electrical currents ran through it and it was somewhat milky in appearance. It was as if some forms of life were in the currents. Something was communicating with me.  It asked me if I was ready to come all the way in. I said no. I wanted to go back and raise my two sons until they did not need me anymore. I wanted to become a better person. I made a promise to be a good mother. The light assured me that I was loved and I was sent back into my body to fulfill my purpose. When I awoke after the surgery, this experience was immediately with me.

I spent months searching for answers as to what happened during my surgery and what was this vision. (Discussed with professors, wrote to Dr. Raymond Moody, and talked to others who shared my experience).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Ruptured tumor. Heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After I left my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see every detail of the energy in the light. I could see myself clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was so calm and quiet around me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peaceful and loved. Realization of what is important.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual. I no longer belong any one religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More spiritual. I no longer belong any one religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt I could now understand people better. I was no longer afraid of death.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As I feel I am accountable to a higher force.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No one believed me. Life changing experience. Hard to describe the light/energy in tunnel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel connected to another dimension. I seem to be able to 'read' people. I can sense negativity. I actually get ill when around difficult people. Hard to explain without sounding New Age as I have dreamed of other universes and feel like I have been there before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I knew there was life after death when I was embraced by that love in the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with my surgeon shortly after surgery and he told me it was the effects of the drugs during surgery. My husband, a physician, thought I was nuts to tell anyone.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Real or more real than other experiences in my life. I can still recall everything in detail, but cannot remember details of so many other important experiences of my life (childbirth, car accident, etc.).

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_d_nde_4447.html