{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail D NDE 2529","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail D NDE 2529  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						805  Gail D NDE  2529  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I was sleeping in my room which was on the bottom floor of my parent's home. I woke up because there was something over my face, I started fighting, something or someone was on my chest and started punching me in the face, chest and I was terrified, I knew I was going to die, I couldn't scream, couldn't breathe, right before I lost consciousness I smelled something strange, very strange. After that, I was on a lake in a row boat, I could see myself in the boat, I felt very calm, wasn't thinking about anything, just looking. It was very dark, but I could see the silhouette of purple on mountains when I looked to the side, it was beautiful and looked like the sun would rise very soon. The lake was very still, I wasn't afraid, then I heard my mother and daughter's voice, but my daughter who was only approximately two at the time, well, it was the sound of her voice grown up but I knew it was her voice. They called my name and my body moved like through an air current very quickly. It was as if the wind carried me so fast and I saw a bright, bright light very quickly and then a beach. Then I saw my mom and daughter standing on the beach.  My daughter was grown up. I came out of the unconsciousness.

The men who had broken into my parent's house were still there, and I was in and out. They went upstairs after my parents, but my dad went after them and they ran out, my brother came into my room. It had to be horrible for him. I was bound, gagged, black, and blue all over, I had been raped, it was pretty bad. They called an ambulance and I was taken to hospital in Newark, the rape crisis unit. I recovered but it was pretty bad, I had panic attacks for many years.  I know I did go to the other side a kind of waiting area, and my mom and daughter called me back. Me seeing and hearing my daughter grown up showed me what was most important and gave me a glimpse of the future. My mom is gone, passed away when I was thirty but she gives me strong signs many times in my life that she is there and answers questions of life, I feel that I am strongly connected to my mom. I have dreams sometimes of people that passed on that tell me things or show me things in the future. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 approx. 1975  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Life threatening event, but not clinical death I believe I did stop breathing and was dead for a few minutes.  Gagged, beaten and raped.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed like every moment was me seeing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole time I was unconscious.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I noticed everything to the moment.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only heard sound when my mom and daughter called to me and they were the catalyst for me being moved to the light and beach.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I was being pulled back to the beach and light.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But it was when I was being pulled back to life.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the lake and the beautiful mountains.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotions at all, just noticed everything every moment.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        YES, I saw what the future held, in hearing and seeing my daughter grown up and in seeing my mom and daughter I realized how much they loved me, they drew me back to life.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was mad at God, things had happened in my young life and I blamed God. I was very suicidal prior to the break in at my house.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in church, but I believe strongly in God, and I do a lot of research and reading on religion, spiritualism, philosophy.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   heavy into spirituality, I research all faiths and beliefs  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in church, but I believe strongly in God, and I do a lot of research and reading on religion, spiritualism, philosophy.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain No, but I view life much differently.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     People in family that have passed away come in dreams sometimes, and tell me future events. I am very, very intuitive now and can tell people's future by tarot cards. I also see how the world works much easier, part of intuition. I can also tell characters of people by looking at their eyes.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The lake and mountains were peace; the purple on the mountains told me the sun would be rising soon. I believe if I was there when the sun rose, I would be staying. I believe that now. I was very suicidal before this terrible event because of things that had happened and later I realized how precious life was and how important my child and mom were, I needed to be here. Now I see life as such a special gift, but it took many years for all of this to set in.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tell many people about the experience, about how there is life after death.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that I was in the place you waited before it was decided if you would stay or come back here. I still remember everything I saw when I was there, I never forget one detail.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still remember every single detail of when I was there.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had such a strong connection to my mom since she passed away, and I would have to say that many things, signs have occurred and I believe it's because I breached the curtain and I am still somewhat connected to the after place.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_d_nde.html