{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail C NDE 4268","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail C NDE 4268  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2091 Gail C NDE 4268  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember the day of the car accident. I felt so sad during the morning and I did not want to do anything or move from my room. I was not afraid, I was just very, very inexplicably sad, doing things slower than normal and wanting to cry for no reason. My husband came into the room and asked me what was going on. He tried to cheer me up and we decided to go shopping for food for the week. After this, we went home.  In the car, I started feeling sad and afraid of something. I felt exalted and I tried to calm down. 

Suddenly, a black car appeared and I just remember the car was spinning and then a beautiful peace that I cannot describe with words. I did not remember anything. I was not aware of what happened. I did not remember anything at all. I just saw a light like the sun, so bright and clear. I saw this as if I was lying down looking at the sky, but it was not the sun for sure. How could I be looking at the sun without hurting my eyes? I heard children laughing, as if they were playing and having fun. But that peace, that peace was awesome. Suddenly, I started to feel fear, so much fear. I remember I opened my eyes. I could not see clearly, but saw how the doors of an ambulance were closed. I said ‘something happened’ and then lost consciousness due to the craneoencephalic trauma I had suffered.

Many months after my accident my husband told me we were in the car all the time as the rescue team could not open the door of my side. I was covered in blood and I was not breathing. He said my eyes were wide open but ‘crystallized’ like a dead fish. He thought I was dead. After some minutes, I made a big sigh and started to breath, but I was still unconscious.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident  Car accident  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     From what I recall, I’m not sure if before the NDE or after, it is a very dark field of vision. I tried to see, but it was without clarity and all in dark grey color.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard children laughing, as though playing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just saw a light, like the light of the sun but without any shape - just light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable peace! A peace without understanding.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Believer

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe more, but I became more careful about the things I believe.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Believer

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe more, but I became more careful about the things I believe.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The peace I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That amazing peace. I just try to remember it, but I cannot feel it again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just my husband and my Mom, 15 days after. We did not want to talk that much about the experience as it impacted upon our lives.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_c_nde.html