{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gail_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Gail A NDE 7219","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gail A NDE 7219  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gail A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3669 Gail A NDE 7219  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Initially, I was being strangled. I thought it would stop, but it never did.  Eventually I gave up struggling. My limbs began to tingle, and my ears buzzed loudly. There was a loud bang or thump, and I was there, wherever there is. 

I was aware that I could communicate without speaking and that I could know all that I wanted to know. There was a feeling of peace and calm, unlike anything I've experienced since. Then came a judgment of sorts, where I was judged on the things I had done and the things I would do in my future life. This upset me as I felt it was mean to punish or judge me for things I hadn't done yet. I wasn't judged on big things, more small instances of intent. It was the little things that mattered and not the big things. Then I was told that I had to go back, which didn't make me happy at all, as I knew that being alive would hurt. Every aspect of living would hurt. The thought of going back into a wet, disgusting body repulsed me. I couldn't believe I had to wear my body again, as it felt like wearing an old disgusting coat that belonged to someone else. Finally I was told that this was my last chance and that I should have the courage to live the life I wanted to live, and then I was back in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was strangled until my breathing and heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Entirely conscious the whole time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time meant nothing at all there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't have vision in the traditional sense, but I saw things and beings with my whole being.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything; I remember sensing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Family members who had died well before I had been born.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It wasn't visual but more of a radiant glow which passed through me.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Your options are a bit 'hippyfied.' It was certainly somewhere else, but it wasn't as pretentious as this questionnaire would present it. It was another dimension with utterly different physical and mental laws and states of being, not fields of pansies and dancing goats.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Utter peace and calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything that had happened and that would happen. I tried to hold onto it as I came back, but it slipped away like water through my fingers.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was aware of several massive turning points globally and personally. I tried to retain the information, but it was impossible.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I attended Sunday school every week until my experience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church anymore.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   I believe in an existence of a being  or collective being, but I'm not sure how to classify this.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was brought up to believe in god and angels, non of that religious stuff was there.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I instantly realized that life goals are a waste of time and that religion is a form of abuse to control the masses.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   First, I met relatives and then I was passed before three judges of sorts for a review if my life.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     That nothing really matters.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all on the same wavelength, just different peaks within the frequency.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There was no religious god. There seemed to be a supreme being, though in feel that we are all a part of that being.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything, and then when I had to return and use a brain to contain my knowledge, it all seeped away.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Absolutely, that life as we know it is far from life. Life is what happens after this place.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     There is no hell. Hell and heaven are bs.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is what it's all about, it's why we exist.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     As a result of my NDE, unlike anyone else in my family, I utterly don't care for worldly possessions or money. I don't care for shallow people, and I don't suffer wasted time due to untruths.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I don't agree with any kind of greed.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was difficult to explain that being in a body was the unusual aspect of life, that this state as we are in now is not our natural state.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I will never forget what it was like, it's as if it happened to me this morning.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Wherever I go, I'm essentially haunted. If there is any activity in the area, I'm like an amplifier. We regularly hear voices, sounds, smells, breezes, temperature differences, and I get a feeling when things are about to happen.  If I'm on my own I ignore it, but if others say something about experiencing stuff, I'll just say, 'Yeah it happens.'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peace, I'm looking forward to feeling that again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't tell anyone for 20 years. My husband was open to the idea, but skeptical. My family disowned me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wanted to go back. I realized that this is not real, that the next place is the real place.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view is unchanged.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gail_a_nde.html