{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gaelawree_c_nde.html","mytitle":"GaeLawree C NDE 7771","mylang":"de"}
          	        GaeLawree C NDE 7771  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					GaeLawree C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4012 GaeLawree C NDE 7771  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before the accident, I was visiting my friends, and a young man, that I liked, at his aunt's house. He had picked me up with his motorcycle and he and his friend where riding on an outing with myself and another girl. We spent some time at the aunt's home, and late at night, we left to take me home. It was about 1:00 am. I lived very far away. We were riding down the long driveway. I heard a voice and it told me to lay my head on my friend's back. So I did, the next thing I was aware of was flying through the air. I flew 92 feet and hit the pavement on my head. I bounced and went another five feet and hit again. I rolled and stopped on my back. I had my eyes open and I could see the moon and the North Star. I then left my body and went into a tunnel of very bright light. It was very peaceful, a feeling of ecstasy, peace love and belonging. I saw different levels or scenes of, time, I am not sure, it was like glimpses of time. I was given natural knowledge of things I was not taught on earth. I came to a place, it was a place of energy, and I was met by my maternal grandfather. He greeted me, and there were others that I knew. They were all energy, all of them, they had no physical bodies but I knew them, recognized them, each one. A huge energy swept around us. I believed this to be God. He told me I had to go back. He told me I would experience great pain but I would come through it, I knew He would take care of me there. I immediately went back down, in fraction of an instant. I went back into my body through my eyes. I felt immense pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec. 6, 1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was involved in a motorcycle accident. I was a passenger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  While I was going on the tunnel of light, I could look back and see people I know on the earth. I saw the boy get up off the ground and run to me. I saw him pick me up in his arms and look up and cry out, 'Oh God, what have I done'?, then I saw the couple with us, turn their motorcycle around and come back to where we were. I saw my mother at work running through burgundy velvet curtains into a hallway to a big old fashion black wall telephone. The receiver was hanging and swinging. That had not happened yet when I saw it. It was hours before my mother even knew about the accident. It was the hospital calling her.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had a deeper sense of everything; it was like suddenly knowing everything clearly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through all of it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to be a split second, from the time I hit the ground to the time I returned to my body. There seemed to be no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was on a totally different level of consciousness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot relate to experiencing hearing while in my experience. While I was in my body, I could hear. Out of my body, I could not hear. When I returned to my body, I could hear the nearby animals and I could understand them, what they were communicating. It was about me. They were telling each other about me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel of light and peace.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My maternal grandfather, my children, relatives, friends.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The tunnel of light I traveled through, I saw it as I was looking at the star by the moon when I stopped rolling.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I don't know where it was, but it was not mystical. It seemed to be in space.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, ecstasy, no emotional pain at all, just peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I seemed to have had a knowingness of everything, at the time and for many years, but it has faded over time.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I remembered many past events during the different levels; I believe were past events or time.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw visions after the accident. Two years after, I started having visions of earthquakes. I also had a vision of Jesus during an earthquake vision. Jesus spoke to me during that vision. Then a couple of years later at a Bible study I heard his voice, but did not see him.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was born & raised in the Luthern Church, at age 12 was confirmed in the Wisconsin Synod, had accident & visions of Christ and became Baptist, then switched to Reformed Presbyterian, then switched to Non Denominational.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God differently than the traditional Christians who don't believe we could die and return. Or that we could experience super natural beings.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   see above

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     before I precieved Heaven to be a earthly kind of place. It was not. I precieved people and God to have bodies, and they did not.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My Christian-Judeo values and beliefs became concrete to me, before there was doubt. I searched for Jesus in reading the Bible and going to church, talking to Christians. I made the decision to become a Christian, a born again Christian, and to leave my old life behind.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered my grandfather, other people I knew, and God

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   God is known on earth, but not certain he had form here. He has no form there. Two years after the accident I saw a vision of Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I am not certain, but I believe I met my children, so therefore I must have been there before I came here.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It seems to me that we are energy and that the afterlife will be as energy. I don't think this is mystical however.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I do believe God exists! Absolutely. I met His energy form and He spoke to me, it was telepathicaly.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I did; as I've gotten older the details have diminished but the understanding of it is still in my heart and mind.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I believe I was sent back to discover that purpose on my own. I believe it to be to serve God in what ever way He wants you to serve Him, and that we are not on earth to be happy but to serve God.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is existence after earthly life. I recieved the knowingness on the existence of continuing life after life on earth. But it does not seem to me to be on a planet. It seemed to be in space.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To love one another, and do good for love.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     It seems to me that I had a purpose but I was not aware of what the purpose was clearly. I tought it was to find Jesus on earth, and to serve him & God.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is what Life is. It is what Life here on earth is about. We are to love, that is a commandment of God.Which is very hard to do, its easy to love your spouse, family and friends, but very hard to love strangers.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I was cured of my fear of death. Only wanted to live to find what it was that God wanted me to do. Until I had children, then I wanted to live to be with my children.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some got better, and some got worse. It seemed anyone I told believed me.  If someone didn't believe me, they did not say so to me. It didn't change relationships I already had, or it made them stronger. New relationships accepted it to be real for me, and never were negative about it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to clearly describe what I experienced. I did my best with the words I deem close to it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had abilities before the accident to communicate with animals. To sense true emotions in people, that they were hiding. I experienced seeing, and feeling the presence and hearing spiritual and unearthly beings. It seemed to be stronger after the accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke of it to my friends. Later years: to my mother, and siblings and Pastors and other believers in Jesus, and unbelievers and to Jewish friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it to be real, never had a doubt, ever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same answer as the last.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gaelawree_c_nde.html