{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gabriela_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Gabriela A NDE 7955","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gabriela A NDE 7955  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gabriela A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4122 Gabriela A NDE 7955  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The event happened the moment they gave me anaesthesia for an operation.  On administering the anaesthesia for a spinal block, I felt a strong blow towards the back of my head. I saw myself floating through a type of misty tunnel with an intense white light at the end. I felt absolutely nothing; no fear, no happiness, no anxiety, nothing.  I just floating like a piece of paper. Also while floating, I saw a green-colored tunic that the doctor was wearing.  I saw myself wearing a blue cap.  I had never seen the blue cap before because it had been moved to behind my head. While I went through the tunnel a series of hands tried to grab me without success.  I kept advancing towards the light at the end of the tunnel. I was almost there when one of the hands dragged me back to my body.  

It was at this moment that I opened my eyes on the operating table, seeing various faces above me.  They were the same that I had seen when I was floating.  It was as if I had been suspended from the roof. The Mexican lead of the surgery team, asked me 'Where were you?' I told him what had happened.  They were shocked by the details that I gave them like the colour of the hat and that I had been able to see them treating and reviving me.  I was describing the scene from the position where there had been a giant clock in the room.  Everything was very strange and I didn't associate it with a near death experience until some time later. I knew that I had had respiratory arrest and that they had given me respiratory assistance by means of intubation.  They asked me lots of questions of a diagnostic type to find out whether there had been any sort of neurological damage like lack of oxygen to the brain.  After the surgery, I had a lot of special care, but then nothing more. This has changed my life forever.  It made me realise how fragile we are, and how everything can change in seconds with the possibilty of not reaching our culmination for some unknown reason.  During this period, I had two little boys.  I needed to be here for them. Maybe this is what made me come back. I will never know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Total estado de inconsciencia  Respiratory arrest during childbirth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I started to open my eyes. It is impossible to describe whether the feeling was like that of a dream or a film. It was part of something that I do not know which it is.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, I felt absolutely normal.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   No asocié el evento dentro de ningún marco religioso. Solo sucedió y no tenia ningun conocimiento previo. Solo a partir de eso decidi aveiguar mas sobre lo q me habia sucedido.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   No asocié el evento dentro de ningún marco religioso. Solo sucedió y no tenia ningun conocimiento previo. Solo a partir de eso decidi aveiguar mas sobre lo q me habia sucedido.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     From the experience, I think that all of us have a time of departure from here and it can't be forced by external measures.  As they say, we have a day to arrive and another to depart.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With the passing of many years, I met a doctor that was very interested in the subject, and I told him what had happened. He had a question that people always ask someone that has had this experience, 'Did you feel fear?' and my response was 'NO!'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       In my opinion, it is very important to de-couple the religious side of people who have experienced these types of occurrences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gabriela_a_nde.html