{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gabriel_nde.html","mytitle":"Gabriel NDE 7036\/Probable NDE 7035","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gabriel NDE 7036/Probable NDE 7035  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gabriel NDE & Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3543 Gabriel NDE 7036/Probable NDE 7035  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description NDE  					</p>  					I was very little and was strangled by someone my mom was dating, whom later she married. I was pushed down into darkness and a loud pounding and yelling occurred and was later taken to a TV, which I was watching at the time of the sudden attack.   On the TV, which looked like the cover to the movie 'Poltergeist', was me sitting in front of it. On it, a guide or god showed me events that have come to pass. One that I remembered was in Isr'l they shot a teenager in the grassy hills after he threw rocks at soldiers and which started the second intifada or Arab revolt. In this 'movie' I was watching it until I was living it: being in the grass looking at the slain teenager and the soldiers who chased this teen who found him hiding and killed him anyway. They questioned the soldier and each other as to why he did that. 

This was a brief experience and I was back in my body as my step dad was doing CPR on me.  A part of me died at that point and never came back, I believe. After that I had some psychic abilities.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/01/85

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was strangled as a child.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The TV experience.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was watching TV.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A dark realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, shame

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Isr'l intifada

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Yeah, experience was just happening, there was no going back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was stuck.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   Narrator guide with a deep powerful voice

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     moral understanding of actions in regard to the arab shooting

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     unjustice, murder

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes It ruined my relationship with my step-dad permanently.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My memory is hazy.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Seeing, hearing things, and knowing the future, to some extent.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just recently

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

    Experience Description Probable NDE  					</p>  					I went to a concert with friends and some of us used LSD before the show. I kept falling asleep during the concert. Eventually, after running around the venue I was detained and taken by ambulance to the Emergency Room where I had near heart failure according to my parents. The hospital staff nearly had used the electric paddles to bring me back. At the concert in my 'deep sleep', I saw in the darkness a cloudy light with symbols yin/yang, and the 'peace' sign in the light coming out at me in this tunnel. After that I was basically dropped off in darkness with a lot of people there: a crowd. They said 'what happened to you' and 'you are young' a lot of old people and a younger twenty something girl tried to make me feel okay. At that point, I was alive in this 'dream state' and I knew I couldn't go back. I was stuck and scared. I began to pray and called out to Jesus. I was then brought up into the light, as the crowd yelled or moaned out loud. Then I was brought into the light world with these bird-like beings of light that sang out in beautiful music. That's what they sounded like when they communicated like birds. 

It was nice, but they wondered what I was doing there. I had a female guide that communicated to me in emotions of love and acceptance. Then my consciousness was brought back down to seeing myself in the hospital, as nurses worked on me. Though I couldn't recognize the creatures that were actually humans and I saw us humans as animals, or what we really are these orc-like creatures. [Editor's Note: An orc is one of a race of mythical humanoid creatures, generally described as aggressive, brutish and repulsive.]  When they talked it was like how an orc speaks. It wasn't pleasant but these guides said 'that is you'. I didn't want to be around them. But I recognized myself and felt alarmed, but it was as if, though, it were in the past. I had love for myself and felt compassionate towards myself in that situation. Then I went back up into this very pleasurable golden light world. 

I was forced, by a Force, into my body. I didn't want to come back but I had to, they said. I could feel my consciousness reside back into my body. I was in pain and felt like a clay shell, which I can still recognize if I think about it, and feel it in my hands. As a Buddhist, I believe that what resides in my hollow shell/body is consciousness and all that I experienced was karma/consciousness, which still does not discount other forms of belief. This was my second NDE I will later relate my first NDE.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/01/95

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Near Heart Failure due to LSD overdose. I was in an emergency room.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My girlfriend was crying outside of the emergency room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was in my body as I am now but only on the other side. The other blissful experiences were way more heightened ethereal experiences: found in times like romance or other altered states.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The crowded darkness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was nearly the same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Tunnel with symbols

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was blissful golden hues of greens, reds, and blues in the golden paradise of singing angels or birds.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was an Angel Paradise.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense feelings of love, beauty, and humbleness all while being accepted.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Viewing myself, I was learning from the others that were narrators who were describing the nurses and my life in a greater context.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     In that dark crowd it was like I was alive; embodied, but no going back. Like living in a dream and not waking up.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was forced back and was conscious as I went back into my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice meditation.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     the thought for one that there is something and that i had to come back to life that this world operated at its own accord or laws.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I had a female guide.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     life was about love

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     guides

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     very possible to exist there. my thoughts are it is temporary

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     the humans as creatures observation was and is startling.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     concern for me almost like judgement

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     paradise guides

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I became a novice Buddhist monk. I have some psychic ability and an accomplished meditator. I'm also considered bipolar/schizophrenic due to LSD abuse.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I lost friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was feelings of bliss that can't be found in this existence.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   general memory traumatic time in my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People think I'm crazy or don't believe me, or don't know what to think or say.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Meditation experiences, dreams, drugs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gabriel_nde.html