{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gabe_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Gabe G NDE 2470","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gabe G NDE 2470  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gabe G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						760  Gabe G NDE  2470  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I lost consciousness from an overdose. Then I felt my spirit man on the inside go out of the top of my head, like taking my hand out of a glove, is the way it felt, so to speak. My spirit man then went down through the floor of the house I was in then it continued on down through the earth very deep it seemed until I came to a very large cavern of total darkness. Although it was the worst darkness I have ever experienced, yet I could still see very well. I landed on a rock against a wall and sat there for a moment trying to understand just what it was I was into, trying to consider my circumstances, when I saw a spider that was as large as an automobile tire with the head of a human being attached to it instead of a spider's head. The spider glowed a fluorescent orange color and instantly I knew the spider was color coded according to his crime that put him in this dark place.

Then I learned that this spider was the leader of a group of spirit beings.  They were once on the earth to keep and care for the earth and the people on it, and I knew the time line for this being was during the time of the Adam and Eve episode spoken of in the Bible and this being was called a 'watcher' by the God of all things. This spider was placed here in this cave/jail because here on the earth was where he committed his terrible crime against God and man. All these things came to me through telepathy from whom I do not know as this episode was taking place.

Then I noticed a door in the distance with bars over a small window in the door and this confirmed what I was told about this place being a jail. The spider had friends also in this great darkness they too glowed in different colors according to their transgressions, all colors were present it seemed. The spider's friends were snakes, scorpions and other creepy crawling things and they all had human beings heads on them just like the spider. The orange spider then crawled down the wall beside me and started to talk to me. He said that he was going to torment me for eternity as he knew I was very frightened and had no idea of what was what, and I knew that the spider also was gaining knowledge about me through telepathy as he spoke to me just as I had about him. As the spider spoke to me, his face would twist and distort as if he were in great pain and could not control the things he was feeling.

He appeared to be totally miserable but just as determined to torment me nevertheless and seemed to take great pleasure in doing so. I decided to run at that point, to try to escape from this doom of darkness I found myself in.  But the things I could see glowing all around me throughout this cave scared me so bad that I had become frozen in great fear like I have never experienced because I did not know what might be in the cave in the darkness that I could not see, so I was frozen and could not move. I could not look at the face of the spider any longer because of fear so I looked over at the door with the bars on its windows and I could see one small beam of bright white light. I knew then that there was a way out of this place.  I placed my hands over my eyes and said to myself or rather in telepathy, 'God help me.' At that moment, I flew through the top of the cave.  Just as I came into the cave and felt myself going upward and came to my body lying just where I had left it and entered into my body just like I had left through the top of my head and woke up and my life has never been the same since that day.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1964  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Other I took an overdose of Asthma medicine as I had asthma as a child, and I think I died for awhile.  I took too much asthma medicine and died from an overdose. I do not know for how long I was dead, as I was alone when it happened. I am not even one hundred percent sure that I did die, but the things that happened I do not think would have happened unless I was in a strong state of altered consciousness. I believe I died.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like I was sent there by God to learn about these beings I had witnessed and their condition and why. I have never felt as aware and alive as on that day. My awareness was so that it seemed I could have known and learned about anything instantly except I was rather busy being frightened so I could only focus on the cave and the beings in it called 'the watchers'.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time complete awareness like I have never had before that time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I was too busy focusing in on talking glowing spiders and snakes and scorpions to even notice.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through the earth towards the center.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met the beings spoken of in the Bible as 'the watchers'. These beings were placed here on the earth to care for the people, but instead rebelled against them and God. The reason these spirit beings had the bodies of creeping crawling things is because God put them in these bodies as part of their punishment for doing what they did during the time of Adam and Eve. They lusted after strange flesh so that was their judgment, 'strange flesh', sounds appropriate to me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A small thin light ray coming through the darkness of the cave/jail door.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     but not at that time. The beautiful part is a whole other story that has nothing to do with death but with heaven.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great fear, terror, no control at all, a great not knowing sensation that I had lots to learn about things we call life. Great joy when I flew out of this place. Normal sensations of movement both up and down. The strongest feeling was awe is the only way I can explain it. I had just been to school so to speak, as I felt a great longing to learn all that I could about these things and why things were not as I thought they were before the episode. I have since learned that nothing is as it seems to us here on earth here in the dimension of death.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that God is real and it is not like it is taught in churches today. My whole life changed. I have been given gifts and it seems that I know things that I would have no way of knowing unless someone a lot smarter than me gave it to me. I learned that the place I went to was not 'hell' but was the 'place for the spirits that are in prison' waiting to be judged for their transgressions they did to the people of Adam and Eve and their family. Revelation 20:7 speaks of the spirits in prison, that is where I went to I have learned in the forty-one years since the event. I have never forgotten a single bit of the episode. It is as clear today as if it happened yesterday.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I cannot tell what I know at this particular time.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none, I only checked moderate because I was prompted to choose a button before I could submit this form.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My world was turned upside down and the real world of the spirit is nothing like the organized religions of our day tell you about. I have since found out that organized religion (all of them) get almost all of it wrong and for the most part do not have a clue.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian, I belong to the spiritual church called Philadelphia. I would be considered a liberal by most Christians.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My world was turned upside down and the real world of the spirit is nothing like the organized religions of our day tell you about. I have since found out that organized religion (all of them) get almost all of it wrong and for the most part do not have a clue.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I came to know that God is the only one that could have taken me on that trip and then brought me back and then through the subsequent years teach me a lot more about things as they really are, not as we are lied to about by our rulers.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes No friends.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to express because it was so horrible.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Gifts of understanding, wisdom, knowledge, healing, all of the gifts listed in the Bible to all Christians. I was also given the 'treasures of Darkness'.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People don't seem to want to hear what happened to me. I told my brother right after it happened and through the years maybe five other people. I found out that people do not want to be around me for very long after I tell them about the episode. I understand this reaction and am not offended by it. People that know me do not want to be around me very much. I have been somewhat isolated from social activity as everything as far as I am concerned that is important in this life is spiritual matters and most people are not inclined that way and would rather not hear about it. However, again I understand and hold no grudge toward anyone. I can count my friends on one hand, with a few fingers to spare.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Never thought about it until it happened to me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew God had sent me there but I did not know why until fifteen years later when he told me all about the episode and why.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reality of the experience I had is the true state of consciousness that exists after we all die in the body of flesh that we are wrapped within. The state of my being during the episode is the state we will all be in after we die - except of course for the scary things that happened to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I have had many out of body experiences that were greater than the death episode, and all these came about by prayer and meditation not drugs. I found out that to hang around with God is a lot more mind altering than any drug I have ever taken.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       But there is not the time or the space to say it here.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You might consider placing a radio button at question 27 along with another option that says 'other' and a box to write in. I would consider placing boxes to write in at the following number questions, 6, 11, 13, 14, 17, 20 and 29.Thanks for asking. Peace to you all.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gabe_g_nde.html