{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gabby_nde.html","mytitle":"Gabby NDE 2320","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gabby NDE 2320  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gabby NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						677  Gabby NDE  2320  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I arrived in the intensive care unit not in any further respiratory distress and all of the sudden I felt my body sinking and becoming very heavy. I didn't feel the need to breathe anymore and I could feel my heart rate begin to slow significantly. I could also feel that my oxygen level was low but I still did not feel the need to breath like most people would.

There was a calmness about me that I cannot express in words.  There are no adjectives to describe this type of calm feeling. I began to see several doors made of a straw type material. These doors were circling in front of me as if they were on a Merry-Go-Round. These doors were all attached to each other to form a constant chain of straw doors. As I kept seeing these doors, the calmness I felt was extraordinary. For some reason I knew if I choose to go through one of these doors I would die and continue to experience a peaceful calm unbelievable feeling. I don't know who was telling me this but I knew it was either a relative that had passed or some spiritual message. (I'm not a very religious person.)

Anyway, the next thing I know, the respiratory alarm as well as the low oxygen alarm was going off and the nurse was putting the oxygen back on me. So that was it. What a gift this experience was because now I am not afraid to die.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3/10/05  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Pulmonary embolism.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure how to answer that question.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       EXTREME peace and calmness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I realized that we are here on earth for one thing. To perpetuate human kindness so that we can continue to exist on earth. This is our soul purpose. We continue to be born so that there is a continual supply of human kindness to combat the dangers of our world.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few weeks and just to a few selected people. Some positive, some negative.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gabby_nde.html