{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1gabby_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Gabby G NDE 7419","mylang":"de"}
          	        Gabby G NDE 7419  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Gabby G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3775 Gabby G NDE 7419  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having hallucinations by the time my husband arrived home. He had been on his way to a settlement in South Africa, when a voice told him to turn around and get home. Why he did, we do not know. I had asked a nurse, who lived near us, to take care of my child. She made me tell her I had overdosed and she had gotten me to vomit. She could not keep me awake. My husband kept hitting me, when he got home, to wake me up and I can remember scratching the back of his van searching for shoes, I was sure I had lost. I then bit the nurses who tried to get the stomach pump into me. 

They removed my false teeth to stop me biting and then I was out of my body. I watched the doctor say ‘we are losing her, we are losing her.’  Then, I was in a tunnel and travelling to a light with a wonderful feeling of love and protection. A voice said ‘why have you stopped fighting? Don't you know I am still with you?’  I was then told that I had to go back. I did not want to, but I woke up in a body that had voided and was really manly. The doctor was almost in tears and said ‘we nearly lost you’.  I tried to comfort him and the nurse showed me where I had bitten her. I was completely lucid and felt really bad and at the same time elated, but bodily tired too.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I took four to seven medications for bi-polar treatment taking two weeks in one sitting.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I clearly saw my body and the doctor and nurse working on me, but I could not see what they were doing, as I was above and to the side, then I was not aware of them.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I barely can remember what I have for breakfast, and have a lot of practice forgetting things, this experience has never faded.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Out of my body

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt I was moving fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was in a bad nightmare before, and then it was love and more real than love in the physical plane.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I am not sure I was using normal senses. I just knew. I could hear the doctor, but not the nurse’s response.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a light then dark, and disappeared as it approached.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A warm bright light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It said ‘you have to go back’.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Hated God

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am no longer Christian or in an organized religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I am now a spiritualist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in a God that was vengeful as a father figure. I became confused after as I tried to find the being who loved me, but the churches had another interpretation.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Today I am vegetarian as I feel it is wrong to take life. This is in spite of the fact I love the taste and smell of meat. I am studying to become a medium. I have educated myself to a professional level and ensured my daughters are educated, despite my family beliefs. I have studied past- life regression, to try to understand why children and other souls must suffer. I constantly question everything and despair of organized religion in all forms believing it to be bad for humans. I am so unlike what I was, before the experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Subsequent to this I started to study past life regression therapy. I actually became scared to die after I returned to life, but it was told I would not live long with my health problems, so I guess that feeling made me fight to live, which the being wan

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There was a prescience of total love

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I would survive and I knew I could change not only me but the world.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The knowledge that we are important and matter, we are meaningful.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I had not experienced much kindness in life. My step father had put forks in my eyes. I had been taken from my extended family. I was beaten in one case so severely that I was given two hours to live. My Father once he got me back, did not want the proble

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I searched religions, after this, for a meaning, an explanation that I could understand. I became a rebel to society in many ways, forcing change, because I do not want or need society’s acceptance at the cost of my soul.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I refused to allow my husband to abuse me. We have now been married for 36 years.  I removed negative people from my environment, although it took time with my parents to take that step. I was able to forgive and understand, that did not mean forgetting, but changing the situation to ensure those that could not change, had to be released.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was a psychological shift. I was loved and this had not been something to which I was familiar.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It defined me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can see auras, but not in color.  My mother said I was deadly ill at 6 months, and I think I may have had a NDE then, as certain things like being aware of other beings, déjà vu, foreseeing certain events before they happen and vivid dreams have always been part of me. Now I am developing them, I am frustrated by blocks that I seem to have, which I am sure were put there as a child as a product of a vivid imagination, for which I was always being punished.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience defined me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    There was no understanding. Hostility, a sense I was weird.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I think I died at 6 months and was brought back. I had an intersection of the bowel and appendicitis. From the scarring, you can see I had peritonitis. The surgeon who worked on me in 1960, also worked on my elder brother who had died, so I think the doctor went above and beyond to save me, from what I was told.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a shift in reality, which I would not have made. I was nearly blind, slightly deaf and very scared of everything before. I was so tired of fighting in my life. Afterwards, I coped with more bad things and survived and overcame.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It still defines my search for meaning.  I have the education to understand the mind, the brain and nothing can explain why I had an experience that mirrors so many others in so many ways. Collective unconscious does not explain the clarity nor does electrical discharge of neurons, or electrical activity of the brain. Hallucinations are different from this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Hypnotherapy, but not to the same intensity

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was positive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gabby_g_nde.html