{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1g_bryan_b_nde.html","mytitle":"G. Bryan B NDE 184","mylang":"de"}
          	        G. Bryan B NDE 184  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					G. Bryan B NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1433 G. Bryan B NDE 184  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Although lamentably true, the following story may appear as though I sat up a few nights concocting it, or could blame it on a bad experience with mood-altering substances (substances that I used to refer to as “recreational drugs” --  most of which were not pharmaceutical in nature.)  I honestly wish that were the case. 

Starting in June 1975: I rolled an almost—new Ford Bronco into an empty irrigation canal, it came to rest inverted. In the accident I was knocked unconscious. When I came to, because I couldn’t open the doors, I had to kick the windshield out and wriggle out between the hood and the ditch-bank. Here’s the kicker . . . less than 12 hours later, they (the irrigation district) turned the water into that canal for the season. That’s once!

July 1978: I broadsided {and totaled} a four-door Plymouth hardtop (not a MG Midget or something) with a Kawasaki 900 motorcycle. Injuries sustained: large skull fracture (through a full-coverage Bell helmet), torn rotor sockets in both shoulders, lower-left arm broken (both bones) near wrist, broken right thumb, and a compound fracture of right femur. The leg required a 9—inch plate and 14 screws to repair. I traveled 91 feet through the air from point—of-impact before I touched down the first time. I’m not even sure if Evel Knievel or his son Robbie would have attempted this one? That’s twice!!

  August 1981: My tie-rod (central steering—linkage component) broke, I lost control of my vehicle (a pickup) —— and left the roadway on my side, changed direction when the vehicle encountered the barrow—pit and came back onto the roadway (crossing into the oncoming lane of traffic) and was broadsided by another pickup piloted by a chap who was too drunk to walk (so he had to drive)

I was thrown across the cab of my truck, striking the occipital region of my head forcefully enough against the passenger—side door—post as to render me “dead at the scene” when the ambulance and EMTs arrived. ( I had a closed head—injury and brain—stem damage) I was revived enough to be loaded into the meat-wagon (ambulance) and transported to the CCU of St. Alphonsus Hospital while in a coma. 

I was placed in an iron lung (respirator) on an ice-water blanket in an attempt to control a runaway temperature elevation. After ten days I was moved down the hall to the ICU. At this point I was transported to a convalescent center (still comatose) where I remained until about the first (1st) of November. It was at the convalescent hospital where/when I began to come out of the coma.

  About the middle of the month I was taken to the Elks Rehabilitation Hospital where I was placed and remained for the next three months undergoing several different types of therapy. While at the Elks I threw blood clots from my legs and tore my lungs up pretty good. When I was discharged from there my mother was told that I’d probably never be able to walk unassisted again or be able to do much of anything constructive. I love it when DR’s are wrong. That’s three times!!! 

Needless to say, what followed became literally years of outpatient therapies, diet (I gained and lost over 100 lbs.), intense exercise sessions, additional schooling, relearning how to talk, walk, dress, eat, etc. All the things most people take for granted, I thank God daily I’m able to still do (or do again) 

Getting back to the last accident: After the blow to my head remember “falling” up out of my body into a long tunnel. As I traveled the length of this tunnel it became patches of many pastel hues. When the tunnel ended (although it “felt” like the beginning) , it was in a room that looked like the inside of a cloud out of an airplane window. And I wasn’t alone! (I also recall looking back down upon the accident scene, and thinking in a very detached sort of way “Looks like that boys (me) in “hurt—city.””) 

The “being” that was there with me appeared as nothing short of radiant energy. Have you ever looked at a 100 watt light bulb without the shade? Okay, now imagine a 50,000 watt bulb you could look at directly without hurting your eyes. Never have I felt such pure; love, warmth, intelligence, compassion, and understanding. There seemed enough presence of personality in this one entity to make up a small crowd. 

The old line “my life flashed before my eyes” happened to me while I was with this being. Although it was never said, I got the impression that this “being” was disappointed in/with me for not taking advantage of the “gifts.”  I’d been given gifts in the form of an IQ almost enough for a person and a half. (roughly) 

It was then that the “being” spoke to me (through a voice directly inside my head).  It asked me if I would be willing to provide it some assistance. Before I had finished forming the thought “certainly” in my head both of us were transported to a dimensionlessly vast library (or so it appeared to me at the time). . The “being” spoke to me again, giving me a list of the things it wanted me to do research on in the library. 

The “being” departed and I went into the library and began the required research, . But not by going from book to book as you might expect. I went into the building and sat in a smallish room in front of a computer terminal which responded to my thoughts. Information on whatever topic I was looking under would appear and scroll past at the perfect (for me) reading speed. 

Several odd things worth noting: 1) I never saw anybody else in the library during the entire time I was there. 2) Even though it seemed I was there a very long time, the building never closed, the lights never dimmed —  I never got thirsty, got hungry, got tired of reading, or even had to use the restroom. 3) The moment I walked into the library it felt as though an old instinct (like salmon spawning) took over and I somehow just “knew” what needed to be done. 

Author’s note: The weirdest thing about any of this is that none of it seemed even slightly weird (or remarkable) at the time. 

As I neared the end of the list of research topics I’d been given, suddenly a “voice” came on in my head [nearly the same as the being had had, but clearly a different voice] announcing that the library was about to close. So I finished up with the topic I was reading and went outside and sat on the steps to await the return of my host. 

I was still sitting there waiting when I came out of the coma months later  unaware of where I’d been or what had happened to me. It wasn’t until several months later while I was studying microelectronics and principles related thereto (with the intent of rejoining the work force) that these events, and associated information came bubbling out of my head. It was strange, I’d sit down to study —— somehow stumble into one of these hidden information folders in my head ... and emerge up to two or three hours later stunned by what I’d found stashed there! 

I know this information wasn’t given to me solely for my benefit. Insofar as I’m able to ascertain, this info, was/is intended for the entire species  to kind of “improve the condition of the human living condition,” (if you will)? Yet to this point I have only the notion that it needs to be implemented ASAP . . . but at the same time have no idea how that can be accomplished. However, an outlined course of action is contained within the final paragraph. 

In evaluating the final proposal, please consider: My health seems to be headed south, and I consider myself far beyond lucky to be sitting here writing this document to begin with. The outlined course of action proposed (although it will enhance the lives of most of us currently alive) is primarily intended to repair the damage we’ve all already done to the home God left us as caretakers of for generations yet unborn. So that our grandchildren can pass this glorious planet to their grandchildren —— and we can begin to relearn the valuable lessons the indigenous inhabitants (Native Americans) never lost sight of. 

We have both the ability and capacity to leave a legacy for our descendants, of which the meanest of us may be proud. Yet because of the way we have structured our society most of us are afraid to move to change this structure for fear of retribution and/or ridicule from our fellow man. No matter how well-intentioned the underlying motivation may be. 

I honestly believe that I was “sent back” here, with enough technical information in my head to keep a very large team of DR’s, scientists, engineers, technicians, and researchers in several different disciplines busier than the proverbial “one—legged man at a butt-kicking contest” for a score of decades. (perhaps longer) If I can do no more than to serve as a catalyst to initiate this change in mindset,** at least it will give me the impression I’ve done what was within my power to share the love that has been shown me numerous times. 

** But beyond functioning as a mere catalyst, I feel it would be at least moderately prudent to function as a guiding force behind the idea presented in the final paragraph. For beyond being given the technologica1 insight, part of what was given me was a “handbook for implementation” or “gameplan” as it were.

I turned 42 the seventeenth (17) of last month (Feb.) and have been seeking for years an avenue whereby which I could disseminate some of this information. (the last nine years) . Mr. Williams comes across a very down-to-earth, genuine individual who cares about others, as does Ms Winfrey and many of the others mentioned in the final paragraph. If at all possible I would like to meet with Montel or Oprah at either of their earliest convenience? Although ideally, it would be preferable if this/these idea/concepts could be presented to enough individuals simultaneously as to fill a stadium. (see final paragraph) 

There is a high degree of probability that some of this information could be used to: retard the progressive degeneration of Montel's MS, Michael J. Fox’s Parkinson’s disease, and many other works that might be considered “philanthropic” in nature . .. on what might be considered an ordinately massive scale.

In essence, what I’m asking for is your help and assistance so I can help all you folks in assisting each other to achieve a more livable reality (or user—friendly lifestyle) . To help you heal the wounds of Gaea Greek mythology: the goddess of earth) To cause a turning—away from the all-too—prevalent mercenary mindsets, close—minded, shortsighted ego—centered ritualistic bullshit “we the people” seem to have bought into” and become so fixated upon. It falls upon all the inhabitants of this planet to take care of our home and each other. To do otherwise may be the height of inadvisability! 

Some thoughts to mull over: 

Had I actually been in a “library?” —— I seriously doubt it. It probably only appeared in that fashion so my mind could deal with the information presented. 

What if a consortium of philanthropists could be assembled? This collection of individuals might include (but would not be limited to) : Montel Williams, Oprah Winfrey, Ted Turner, Bill Gates, Donald Trump, Steven Forbes, presidential candidate Bush and his father, John Elway and his peers in all sports, all entertainment media personalities, Norman Swartzkoff, Colen Powell, etc. (I’m sure you get the general idea here) Many of the referenced individuals have already exhibited noble philanthropic proclivities to donate to and/or become involved with worthwhile humanitarian causes. In short, anybody and everybody who has ever had even a small philanthropic inclination would be a welcome addition to —— contributor/participant in this massive, long—term undertaking. I’m not gonna lie to you and try to sell you on the fact that it’ll be a “piece of cake” -— or that it’ll happen overnight. But I will tell you that it can happen and is a course of action which needs to be pursued vigorously -- FOR ALL OUR SAKE! 

Mi taku oyasin — Be well, 

(“all of my relatives”)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 12, 1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   traumatic closed head-injury and braim-stem damage

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I recall watching myself in the library on the other side.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Other than the fact I was ostensibly "dead" -- I was completely alert and with it on the "other side" (if memory serves)

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      time seemed somehow altered ... this is addressed in the documentation submitted

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    None other than the "voice in my head" the being had used to communicate with me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     please see previously submitted documentation

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Please see above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       an almost clinical detachment

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     see immediately preceeding -- this was also addressed in a letter to Dr. Long

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned I'd not been living to the potential given me -- see previous submission

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     just a very broad general overview of humankinds place in the Universe -- and the fact that we're on a "path" (if you will) ... down which many of us are headed.  Which unless changed, leads to the gravest of possible consequences.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   see submitted document -- but I was hardly impressed when I realized I'd been "sent back!"  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Agnostic

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Jewish/new-age  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   it was so far removed from accepted conventions that it felt like a "dream" or hallucination.  It's taken me this amunt of time removed from the incident in order for me to be comfortable talking about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best: the beauty of the other side  Worst: having to come back here and live as I have with what's in my head

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       see submitted document and letter to Dr. Long

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       none that I can think of      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1g_bryan_b_nde.html