{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fulvia_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Fulvia B NDE 2392","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fulvia B NDE 2392  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fulvia B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						712  Fulvia B NDE  2392  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

For precautionary measures and to ensure no internal injuries, I admitted myself into the emergency room after a car accident I was able to walk away from. I did not want to take ambulance because I felt fine immediately after the accident. However, thirty minutes or so later, I developed a headache and other minor aches and pains post-accident. A Double city bus hit my car at fast speed. At the hospital, I was given a neck brace and told to wait until an available nurse was able to help me. The doctors and nurses wanted to take x-rays to insure no neck or spinal injuries and brought me to radiology. A series of x-rays were being performed when all of the sudden I didn't feel well. I told the radiologist I felt faint. He told me to hang on and that there was only one more x-ray he needed to complete.

At that moment, I was in a space or entity filled with Golden light. It was peaceful. It surrounded me. I was in it. Although I did not have a body form, I was floating, moving forward and backwards, and all around. Everything and Nothing was in this space, which seemed magnified. I felt like I had been there before so I was not afraid at first. As I floated, I looked around and said to myself 'Where am I?' and 'Why am I here?'(Even though I felt like I had been there before) 'So this is it?' (Referring to knowing that I had died and entered this place.) Since I did not hear or see anyone, I felt alone and then became a bit afraid. I then said 'I guess this is what I deserve.' (Referring to accepting that I was alone in this light and had just died.)

At that moment, I felt a presence behind my right shoulder. Frightened and yet ecstatic, I had a great desire to see who or what it was. I said 'Jesus?' and as I was turning to my right to see WHO or WHAT was behind me, it was then that I was instantly back in the emergency room hospital - hooked up to IV's and monitors, not knowing exactly what happened to me. The doctors later told me my heart stopped. They could not get a pulse for close to a minute. (From the time the radiologist tried to wake me, to the time the doctors were called in to do resuscitation.) I am not afraid to die. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 18, 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         For precautionary measures and to ensure no internal injuries, I admitted myself into the ER after a car accident I walked away from. Did not want to take ambulance because I felt fine immediately after the accident.  However,30 min or so later, I develop  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart stopped for eighteen seconds.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was in a Golden light, which was bright but not blinding. Nothing was in it that I could compare depth perception but at the same time, I felt that everything (even though I couldn't see anything but the light) was in this light and everything was enormous, magnified. As though the light was dimensional. (Difficult to explain.)  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt a presence.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was in a Golden light, which was bright but not blinding. Nothing was in it that I could compare depth perception but at the same time, I felt that everything (even though I couldn't see anything but the light) was in this light and everything was enormous, magnified. As though the light was dimensional. (Difficult to explain.)  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in this Golden light  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In sequence, I went through more than one emotion:  1. Peace.  2. Acceptance.  3. Afraid.  4. Joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part when I called out Jesus' name. I often wonder why I didn't call out for my parents, or other family members. Or even look for my family  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was in the intensive care unit and first shared it about eight or so days after the event. My family asked questions and wanted to know what I saw and what it was like. They were inquisitive. Soon after the accident, I had to start seeing a cardiologist, whose first question to me was, ' Did you see the Light?'  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was at first confused and didn't remember the entire experience and sequence immediately. There was a lot of commotion and chaos when I 'came back'. Doctors working on me, cardiac tests etc., I thought maybe it was a dream and was a little embarrassed to say so I did not mention anything to anyone for a couple of days. I remembered bits and pieces at first and kept it all to myself until it all came together and then it's like I remembered it all as it was happening. I was quietly upset that I had 'come back' without knowing WHY I was sent - and WHO or WHAT presence was with me, behind me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real and not embarrassed about it. Feel lucky to have gone through it and to tell about it  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fulvia_b_nde.html