{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1f_s_nde.html","mytitle":"FS NDE 21336","mylang":"de"}
          	        FS NDE 21336  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					FS NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						945  FS NDE  21336  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I was approximately four years old my parents left me in an unfamiliar house owned by an old lady. My sister was babysitting me. The old lady who lived in the house had angina. I was toddling about in the dining room and ate what I thought were sweets from a bottle. The next thing I remember is my parents questioning me and asking me if I had eaten anything from the empty medicine bottle that they were holding. I then lost consciousness. I had eaten a full bottle of angina tablets.

I awoke to see myself laying on a very high bed. I had a tube in my mouth and there was a funnel on the end of the tube. Doctors and nurses were talking to each other frantically, as if they were really panicking. They were pouring something into the tube. Their voices were raised. There was a sense of urgency. People were moving quickly and looking worried.

I stood on the floor looking up at myself on the table. I was very calmly watching them hurriedly do things to me. Although I was aware that I was standing on the floor, I could also see high up onto the bed (higher than my height would usually allow). I can remember color. I have a sense of the room being small (although I'm not sure - my eyes were fixed on me and them. And then nothing.

I had this image of the above all of my life. Like a short film. I didn't know what had happened to me until I was a teenager and my mother told me about the incident.

Sometime after this, a psychic medium told me I had passed over briefly but had returned when I was a very young child. She seemed to know more than I did!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    approximately 1973

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death .  My heart stopped beating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unsure.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No unusual sounds. Just voices of those around, not totally clear though.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Others who were there. The hospital staff.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Not a specific light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I'm just not sure. I was too sure to make any decisions.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I can’t remember. I was too young. I have never ever feared death and have always believed in the afterlife.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I can't remember, I was too young.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Cannot really judge.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't know what they thought.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1f_s_nde.html