{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fredna_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Fredna D NDE 100","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fredna D NDE 100  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Fredna D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						514  Fredna D NDE  100  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was sitting on the low water crossing in the country, myself and three friends. It had rained upriver for about a week, but the water was clear where we were at the time. My friends were fishing and I was just sitting and watching.


There was a rushing sound coming from around the corner of the river, but the trees were in the way and I could not see what the noise was. Suddenly, flood waters came rushing towards me, and it felt just like I had been grabbed by the ankles and flipped off the bridge. The water current was so strong, I could not swim against it, and I wound up inside the large pipes that passed under the road where the water normally flowed through. The only problem was the other end was clogged up with tree limbs and grass, and I could not pass through. So I was just stuck inside the drainage pipe with the flood waters.


At first, I was panicking trying to get out and then, all of a sudden, a peace and a calm just came over me. I remember that I felt like I laughed and, all of a sudden, it was like I was standing on top of the bridge looking through the road. I could see my body flopping around in the water, but I could not see my Self on top of the road. It was really like I was looking through my eyes at myself in the water, and I remember saying to my Self in my mind well this is it! I never thought that I would drown though, and I remember thinking to my Self, I am not afraid, this is just it!


Suddenly, the pressure from the flood waters burst through the debris and it shot me out on the other side of the bridge and washed me upstream. My friend helped pull me out of the river.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 1981

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     near drowning  Life threatening event, but not clinical death near drowningNear drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As I was standing on top of the bridge looking at my body through the road flopping in the water. I was very separate.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt like I was totally conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Suspended time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My own thoughts.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     Although I was in a pipe under water.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   But the body that I was looking at through the road (the one in the pipe) strangely seemed white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The time in which I was separated was a suspended time, it seems to me.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A surprised calmness and realization that there was no fear, only a longing or excitement, relief of some strange sort.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I just knew that there was nothing to fear. I was safe.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   at the time I was Pentecostal

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I believe strongly in life after death, enlightenment, Buddhism, and read frequently from the words of the Dali Lama

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Everything changed.”

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I may have had the sensitivity to spirits and energies prior to this experience, but blocked it somehow. But after and until this day, I crave touching, and/or knowing anything on the other side.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the peace and the realization that there really is something more. The worst is that it seems that I am incapable of obtaining that peace here in the everyday world - that pure acceptance and stillness and knowing that I know, I know something deep, deep within, but it seems as if it is hidden behind a veil.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some think I am crazy. Some think I made it up. Others just listen. And I guess or wonder if there really is something out there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It is as vivid today as it was the day it happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      There really are not enough words or the right words to describe the feelings I felt during separation, but I tried to use the best words that we have here.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fredna_d_nde.html