{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frederick_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Frederick F NDE 4505","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frederick F NDE 4505  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frederick F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2266 Frederick F NDE 4505  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having my third surgery in nine months due to a tractor accident when something went terribly wrong during surgery. I remember that day like it was yesterday and that was twenty-six years ago. I can remember the doctors and nurses that day becoming panicky and someone calling for a crash cart while they worked on me. 

I never felt any pain as I floated out of my body I flipped over on my stomach and watched for a while. Then I noticed this rotating hole in the wall like a tunnel with the most beautiful blue and whitest light that offered so much peace that I followed the white light down the blue crystal tunnel. I entered into the most peaceful green valley surrounded by trees on both sides with the morning dew and fog still present the vegetation was so lush and the air was of an angelic, almost dreamy-like pleasure to breathe, it was effortless. 

Then my grandfather met me.  I was so happy to see him! He had already died, but he was as real when he was alive. I am still in shock today but it is and still is wonderful to dream and remember the experience. My grandfather was wearing a long white robe that almost glowed or was illuminated with the whitest white you could believe. There were a lot of other men and women wearing the same robes and they were talking to people. Some had street clothes on and some had something like a spirit-like cloaking that was also beautiful. While we talked and walked in this beautiful valley, he told me that I could not stay and this was my preview of what was to come, that he loved me very much, and that my time was up. Then I returned through the tunnel being led by the light. I re-entered the operating room and re-entered my body.

I awoke in my hospital room full of people doctors, nurses, parents, chaplain, and anesthesia team asking me how I felt. All I wanted to do was sleep and try and re-connect but it wasn't going to happen for the next four months - it was like I was in a daze with reality and just couldn't get going again, what was plaguing me was real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1959/1984 (January)

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Hit by car at 3. Died during surgery at 27

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During my out of body experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my out of body experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt that time no longer had an existence.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors and smells are not reproducible to this day or of this world that we now. The Heaven that awaits us and its beauty are overflowing it cannot be perceived in this lifetime but in the next life.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear whispers, birds, an abundance of life was overflowing with the noise of beauty.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The most beautiful tunnel that rotated from both directions it was like the most beautiful blue crystal with white light in the middle that was alive, it moved and I followed it through to the valley.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Like I said I wasn't alone with my grandfather there were others some with street clothes and some with a pre-cloaking of something that was not of this world.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Again it was beautiful light that gave me comfort and love that was warming.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the valley that the tunnel led me to is not of this world and is almost undescribeable it was stunning

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I have never been so happy and free of pain. It was like I had been given a second chance at life and my body was re-born.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It used to scare me to much knowledge not knowing what to do with it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After the experience life is no longer the same, you bring it with, and you can't get it till you go.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I look at life with purpose and love of life, all life animal, earth, and its people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I could not understand why I was sent back to this imperfect world from such a wonderful and beautiful place after being greeted by my deceased grandfather. He told me that I had to go back and raise my children and that it wasn't my time to stay. I didn't talk about it for a long time and I look daily for my presence to make a difference in this world.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had some visions, one was so lifelike I could smell the angels and feel the air off their wings and it is as if it is in 4-D - the colors are not of this world.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No I don't remember anything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried to and received negative responses so I quit talking to and about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I don't remember. I was run over by a drunk attorney and knocked over a seventy feet and left in the road at three years old. My mother heard it and screamed when she saw me not moving this was my first encounter with death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could not understand why I was sent back and only given a preview, I was sad and wanted to return to the afterlife.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is the most comforting thing that I think about very day is not being afraid to die.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The only way to really see this is to have to leave this world or get a preview, it's priceless can't be bought it's earned.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Why me, help me to understand and use this degree in the afterlife to help us all understand and love and embrace this life we have.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frederick_f_nde.html