{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fred_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Fred G NDE 4722  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE due to unconsciousness from unknown cause.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fred G NDE 4722  		  		  		  		  		NDE due to unconsciousness from unknown cause.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fred G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2387 Fred G NDE 4722  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I collapsed on the side of the road, but I was watching the police pick me up from the bus stop across the street, and I remember thinking that the poor guy was in worst shape than me.

A week later I was walking the same route to my parents' house, an old lady came running up to me and throwing her arms around me and said OH thank God OH thank God you are alright. Last week you were lying on the side of the road and you had to be helped. It was then that I realized what happened last week was real. I was outside my body. More happened! I was taken up to the entrance of The Kingdom OF GOD. Off to the left was a school bus filled with people, A little off to the right were people dressed in plain clothes, and all through this experience was a marching sound through the whole experience.

I believe that GOD was making known to me in my mind the interpretation of these things. The school bus etc. which were revealed to me years later and are still are being revealed today.

I experienced nothing but pure love from God. Finally, God started telling me that I had to go back and I moved back away from God when He said the word 'back.' I started pleading with God to stay. God told me that I could not come into heaven in the condition which I was in because I was strung out on drugs and alcohol. God said again that I must go back, and I moved further away, still pleading to stay. Then God said, 'All of the alcohol and drugs that you do won't kill you And I am going to bring you out of it.' Oh yea the light through all of this was so pure. Sad to say but even after all this I continued to use drugs and alcohol, about three to four years later I consistently started trying suicide. I finally crying out to God 'Why won't you let me die.' Forgetting that he told me that all the drugs and alcohol would not kill me. God won the battle, and I got clean.

Today I hope to correspond with others who have hade NDEs God is still working out his plan. I really need someone, or several others to communicate with.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 4 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'Died from Walking to my parents, I fell out on the side of the road. I was really abusing myself.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was beating my body with drugs though I had none the day of the NDE.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say through the whole experience, but especially when I was pleading that I wanted to stay there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Coming back to earthly reality it was if through an enclosure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw people in a school bus to the left of me. I also saw people somewhat towards the right of me. Had no contact with them, though I do believe I had met several of the people over the years that were to the right of me who also have had similar experiences. Don't know where they are today.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Pure unadulterated beautiful light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, unconditional love, total peace really loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that God could be trusted to keep his word.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Everything I was shown has had and still does have future revealing.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in denominations, I believe because of this experience most church folk are in trouble with God, JESUS teaches us LOVE.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in denominations, I believe because of this experience most church folk are in trouble with God, JESUS teaches us LOVE.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   A lot of things were shown to me but I was not given understanding until years later - and still more is being revealed at this time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I begun to have dreams which would come true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The people in the school bus. GOD'S VOICE OF LOVE. THE marching sound, and the people towards the right of me. ALL of this experience is significant to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was seven years before I shared it with anybody. Most were very skeptical.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I realized that it was true when the woman threw her arms around me that I was outside my body. Sad to say I started using drugs and alcohol more suicidally, because GOD told me that all I did would not kill me, and back then I had a death wish GOD WON!!!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This experience NEVER left me and parts of it still happen in my life today. I still live with these things today more than ever.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had dreams which actually happen, some still yet to happen.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It IS with me constantly, and I have no human to talk about it with. I am reaching out the best that I can.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not that I can think of right now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fred_g_nde.html