{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fred_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Fred B NDE 104","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fred B NDE 104  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fred B NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1482 Fred B NDE 104  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Working alone. Grabbed a water pipe for balance. Got full electric shock across the heart -- 115 volts AC. Fell back to get off pipe -- don't remember hitting floor. Was floating in a black void, very happy -- no pain of any kind. Saw a light at my level, to the left. Swung that way and headed for the light, there was a texture to the light like the sun reflecting off water onto a white wall. As I moved to the light, I could hear a dog howling, got louder as I got closer. All of a sudden, the incredible happiness was gone, and I was back in my voltage racked body. The dog howl -- was me! Some primeval survival instinct had kicked in. The sound brought a co-worker from two rooms away, and got me off the pipe-drill motor connection. I was able to change the dog-howl to the word, 'Help.'

He took me to an Emergency Room and they could find nothing wrong! When I related the incident, the doctor estimated by evidence that I was dead for ten to twenty seconds.  I have had no residual effects, except I'm no longer afraid of dying, and appreciate everything in my life more.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  ? Summer 1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death The Dr. said I was most likely dead for 10-20 seconds.  Accidental electrocution.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Perfect size and health.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Knocked out.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no meaning -- eternity.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The dog howling.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Horizontal tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Sunlight reflecting off water onto a white wall (like in 'Poltergeist' movie).

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible happiness and lack of pain.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The snap-back with the dog-howl.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Take more time to, 'Stop and Smell the Roses!'  
   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best -- the black-void/light experience. Worse -- snapping back into my tortured body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They all said that I was 'sent back' because my reason for being on Earth was not over yet.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fred_b_nde.html