{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1franziska_r_adc.html","mytitle":"Franziska R ADCs 7539","mylang":"de"}
          	        Franziska R ADCs 7539  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                    		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Franziska R ADCs  					  					  						Home  						Classification ADCs/Other  			3864 Franziska R ADCs 7539  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 7539  					</p>  					At the age of 2, I told my mother how I came onto earth. I still can remember today: I was a little ball of brilliant blue light, about 5 cm in diameter. Dawn just came and it was snowing. Below a streetlamp I stopped and looked up, even though I could see 360° around. For a long time, mesmerized, I was watching the snowflakes lighting up and dancing in the shine of the lamp, until they disappeared again in darkness. Then I went to the house of my parents. The window of their room was open. I slipped into their bedroom. There my mother was lying at the side of my father. Both were sleeping. Then I slipped through my mother's mouth into her body and mine. So I became her child. 

My mother told me also, that I had been telling her, that I had had a lot of trouble trying to get her together with my father. Seemingly both had been eating in the same restaurant for years, my mother at noon and my father in the evening. 

At three and a half years I was diagnosed with a tumor. Following that, I was treated with chemotherapy. This was a very strenuous time for me. My body was very tired due to the treatment and it felt like lead. When I had to do something, I always first reflected a long time, about how I could execute the task in the shortest possible time, with the least amount of movements. So for example, when climbing stairs I took at least two steps at once. This way I needed more strength to execute the movement, but instead of needing 8 movements for the whole stairs, I only needed 4 movements. 

Shortly after my cancer was diagnosed, Andreas died of a pulmonary embolism. At that time he was 33 years old. Andreas was an 'in-law' uncle and so was not directly related to me. I only saw him once or twice, but I found that he was nice and funny. Not very long after Andreas' death, one night I woke up for the first time on the flower meadow. I'm able to remember, how at first I was slightly disoriented.  I couldn't understand why I wasn't in my bed. But then I saw Andreas, who came out of the expanse of the sky as he walked towards me in his white 'Jesus dress.' Then I felt that Love was poured over me. He looked beautiful with his three-day beard as usual.  He came towards me and smiled at me. I was standing up to welcome him with a hug. 

We were walking a bit through the meadow. It was beautiful. Somewhere further back, a sparkling little brook was meandering through the grass. This brook was the border to heaven. On the opposite side of the meadow there was a forest. Walking here was easy for me.  I was not the little girl I was on earth: but a woman about his age. I was intelligent, beautiful, and healthy. But I especially liked the way I could communicate with Andreas.  I just needed to think a thought and immediately he knew exactly what I meant. He understood every facet of this thought, even including my corresponding feelings. The answer came back in each case without delay.  To lie or hide a thought would have been impossible. Then we were sitting face to face in the grass and started to tell each other things or to discuss things. 

I can remember that in order to obtain an answer for a question, I just had to ask the question. After that I just had to follow the thread; I had access to all answers. I remember darkly a difficult mathematical task. I not only could get the answer, but I also understood very well and how everything was connected and was calculated. This amazed me. On the other side, there were no simple answers about what was/or should happen in the world. These issues we could discuss.  I remember how we discussed certain structures of Power in the Middle East. After some time, he stood up and told me that it was time to go back. 

Then I followed this ritual of forgetting, that I usually accepted with sadness, ‘Now you have to forget everything what we discussed here! Only when you come back here again, you are allowed to remember it.’ ‘Yes. But I don't want this.’ In that situation I was again completely the small child.

‘You are allowed to remember, that you have been here and that you talked to me!’ 

‘Thank you!’ I said.

I didn't like going back into my bed. At the flower meadow, everything was like I would have wanted it on earth. My body was light. I could communicate my thoughts without problems. Everything was simple and logical that you couldn't be mistaken.  The Love was so big, that you wanted to feel it for ever and ever. But I had to go back. Upon the question, why I couldn't stay, he always repeated that there was a plan and that I was important for this plan, even though I actually already knew that. 

I still don't know, what THE PLAN is/or includes. Since Franciscus is pope, I'm even quite sure that THE PLAN is in process. But what my contribution to it should be remains still incomprehensible for me. 

Once again on the flower meadow I said, that I would love so-o-o much to stay in heaven, and asked, if there wouldn't possibly exist a 'speedier process' for me? Andreas promised to let me eventually decide myself. Of course, I knew that it was a trick.  He would only let me decide when it would be clear that I wanted to remain on earth. But, nevertheless, it comforted me. 

In the beginning those encounters happened quite often, but the older I got, the rarer they happened. Following one meeting when I was about eight years old, I told my mother that I met Andreas, and that unfortunately I was not allowed to stay in heaven as I still had a task to fulfill. I realized that she was slightly shocked, but at the time I didn't understand why. She suggested I should ask him next time, of what my task consisted. I explained to her, that I was not allowed to do that. She asked, ‘Why are you not allowed to do it?’ I also didn't know this either, and so I decided to ask him this question. I was still about 8 years old, when I saw Andreas for the last time:

As usual I woke up on the flower meadow, with perfect light and total love. Following the ritual of forgetting, I asked Andreas, what my task on earth was. He looked at me very, very sadly: ‘You know that you shouldn't ask this question! Now we can never again meet here.’ I started to be desperate. I would never again be allowed to come to this beautiful place? Because of a stupid question that I even didn't want to ask? That could not be! I decided to stay there. I just had to jump to the other side of the brook! I took a run up and jumped. I didn't succeed to get to the other side. I jumped against a kind of plasma or rubber wall. It was soft and flexible, was glowing in a golden orange color, and hurled me back.  Andreas tried to catch me. 

I spent a long time wishing to be allowed again on the flower meadow. On the flower meadow where everything is so easy, where I know everything, where there is so much beauty, and where love is so much bigger than on earth. I felt this whole earthly life was like a pure plague and harassment. Everything was so exhausting. Every movement was stringy like an old chewing gum, and every thought was dirty and small. Even the idea of explaining a single one of my thoughts to a real person, made me shiver! Firstly, I wouldn't find the words, and if I finally had found the words, the other person would only understand what they wanted to understand. Then there were those endless explanations that what I actually was meant was totally different than what they interpreted that they heard. Words of lead. Hidden in archives that is organizing them constantly anew. Listeners in cardboard boxes who cannot discern the echo of their own voice from the voice of someone else: That's the world. It is a futile struggle. I hardly had to say something important, so I kept silent for most of the time. 

One night, I then decided that things couldn't go on like this. I simply could not be on the flower meadow, and just wishing to still being there, didn't make it any better. No, it even made everything worse. After this decision I felt much better!

_____________________________________________________________

When I was 17, I was invited by a teacher, to join a group traveling to Africa. I had always been fascinated by Africa, I absolutely wanted to go. But my parents didn't want to let me go; or at least not let me go alone. 

‘No, you cannot come along!’ 

‘Why not?’ 

‘It wouldn't be good for you!’ 

‘No we cannot let both of you go alone to Africa!’ 

So it happened that the whole family went to Africa. In Africa there was a bus we boarded with 27 Swiss and 8 Africans, to get to our vacation place. I knew exactly, what my place should be in the bus, the one directly behind the front passenger seat! I would have fought with claws and teeth to get this seat, but it was left to me. I couldn't understand it and nobody objected. 

A short time after departure I felt a strange connection to the African sitting on the seat before me. I felt an unbelievable desire to put my hand on his back. I had the feeling, that there was something wrong with his lung. I had a certainty that if I would place my hand on it, it would get better. Surreptitiously, I placed my hand on the back rest of his seat. After a while I even dared to touch him. Everybody would think it would just be accidental. He himself wouldn't even notice at all. Immediately I was pervaded by a feeling of absolute peace. Now what was to come could happen. 

Night came fast. I looked up, through the front windshield I saw a dark car rushing towards us on our side of the street. The wheels of the car were sprinkling sparks. Like a dolphin jumping out of the water I was lifted over the seat in front of me. In slow motion, I experienced how the right side door of our bus opened.  In a perfect roll, my body was floating precisely through the gap left in the door for the wheels. Then I somersaulted three times, in complete harmony with time and the earth and in complete quietness, and onto the pebbles of the border of the street. Next to me the trunks, which we had strapped on the roof of the bus, were rolling silently. 

In the end, I found myself curled up somewhere in the total void. I was in total silence and total darkness. I only felt my body. ‘So that's it when you are dead?’ ‘H-m-m-m… I still can think!’ ‘Will I also be able to move? Do I want that?’ I remained as I was. After a certain time in the total void, I came to the conclusion that it was worth it to at least to try to move. Finally, the void was not very inspiring. I tried to move.

At that moment I heard a child's scream behind me. I got up and ran back to the bus. My God, what a mess! Here somebody was hanging over the steering wheel, there somebody was pulled out of the car, here somebody was yelling, there somebody with a thousand glass fragments in his face from the windshield, in the car was my whole family. What was I supposed to do? How could I help? I was later told that I had been asking umpteen times, ‘what I should do’ until somebody told me I should take care of the African who had been sitting in front of me. He was sitting on the street breathing heavily. I sat myself behind him, so that he could lean on me like in a deck chair. They said that he broke some ribs. I tried to stabilize him at best in this painless position. He was speaking French. Even though I didn't understand much French, we still managed to tell each other some things. His name was Elage and he was a tailor.

Eventually I wondered, how I could support an adult man for so long without getting tired in keeping this quite uncomfortable position. After an eternity he was loaded into a car. I went with him. Although, I didn't know him or the driver. The many potholes were very painful for him. When we finally arrived at the hospital, he was put on a stretcher and wheeled away. 

I spent the night on a bench outside the surgery theater. My parents and my sisters had also been taken to this hospital. My little brother was in another hospital. In time it turned out, that my sister Kathrin and I had been the only two people walking away unharmed by the accident. My mother had broken both knees, my father broke his pelvis, my little brother suffered a heavy shock and the little sister broke both underarms. Five of the seven people sitting in the on-coming car died in the accident. 

The next day, the three most hurt Swiss people were transported back to Switzerland by air rescue: My mother, my sister, as well as another tourist, with a dislocated hip. Afterwards, the remaining travelers were taken to the hotel. 

I wanted to say good-bye to Elage. But being alone, I could not find him.  Nobody wanted to help me. Ten days later we traveled back to Switzerland. I had a strong desire to visit Elage in hospital on the way back. But it was simply impossible. I had no money.  Nobody should drive even one more meter on African streets unless strictly necessary.  We flew back to Switzerland. Back in our old life, this had changed considerably. My mother was now in hospital. She had to undergo several operations, to be able to walk again someday. I was taking her place. I had to send my little brother to school, my father discussed problems with me, which he normally would have discussed with mother. 

Two weeks later, I woke up in a white chalked-up African hospital room. Far up, in the high room, there were two small windows through which dawn came and immersed the room in blue light. The whole room was vibrating with total love. Elage was welcoming me cordially. He was healthy! I sat with him at the little table and had to laugh for a start. It was like a prison that I could not get out of.  The windows were too high up and the doors locked. Then we were talking as if we had not seen each other for centuries.  We laughed, giggled, and reflected about the world.  We solved all problems that exist and ever existed or ever will exist. Then he got up. 

‘You now have to forget all matters that we discussed here. But you are allowed to memorize the encounter with me and about your feelings.’ 

‘I know.’ 

‘Furthermore I have two tasks for you. Will you accept them?’ 

‘Yes.’ 

‘....and I want that you tell the tour guide, that the accident was not his fault.’ 

Then we hugged again lovingly. Oh, that love was indescribable. 

‘So and now I must go.’ He became light and left.  I got back into normal sleep. When I woke it was already half past ten. The family was sitting together around the breakfast table. 

‘Good morning. I just talked to Elage. He died this morning about four o'clock.’ Giggles, whispering. I ate my egg and the Sunday croissant. I wasn't mad at them. If you haven't experienced it by yourself, you will not believe it. At eleven o clock the telephone was ringing. My father came back out of the office with a white face and sat at the table again, ‘Elage died this morning around 4 o'clock in hospital due to a pulmonary embolism.’ Our tour guide from Africa just called. 

A few days later I remembered one of the tasks. I had to tell the tour guide, that the accident was not his fault? Only now I realized what I brought onto myself. With my 17 years, it was completely unimaginable for me that somebody may feel guilty for such a random accident. I was scared the tour guide would laugh at me, when giving him the message. I thought, ‘Maybe he will even be annoyed, as he might think I would think that the accident was his fault???’ Eventually I brought myself to do it.  I was quite embarrassed while facing my teacher/tour guide. I said, ‘You know...hmm... I have with... Elage. Do you still remember? He charged me to tell you, that the accident was not your fault.’ My teacher flung his arms around my neck crying. I was definitely not prepared at that! Clumsily I patted his shoulder. 

At age 27, I had just met my present husband. I suddenly felt a stabbing pain in my underbelly. It could not be the appendix as I already had sacrificed it. It had to be a tubal pregnancy! Andreas! If I had to get surgery I clearly felt, that I would be dying. Dying! Now, that I just met my husband? My future had finally arrived and now this! The pain was so intense, that I almost fainted. I desperately started to talk to the child that it would kill both of us if it continued to grow and that the best would be to leave my tube. About a half hour later the pain disappeared as suddenly as it came. After that I had menstrual cramps for several weeks.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985-1989, 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    1985-87 Chemotherapy, death of another person, 1987-89 no special circumstances, 1999 death of another person  Other 1985-87: Body was ailing, sleeping, 88-89: sleeping, 99: Body was completely healthy, sleeping

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I always valued the experiences in the flower meadow and in the hospital room as more real, as this reality.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From beginning to end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     You can imagine it approximately as follows: We normally get consciousness about the visible world only through our body and some more thoughts. This is information, which is transferred via our body towards our brain, and from our brain towards the body. In order not to overburden the brain, much incoming information has to be switched off. The brain is needed by the spirit, to be able to steer the body. But tragically we also use it to think and make decisions. In the flower meadow and in the hospital room the consciousness is not restricted to the body and the visible world. Impressions need not to be processed. They simply are there, which is a really magnificent experience. But it is not impossible to experience this 'over' bodily consciousness also in the middle of life. It can be learned!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    1985-89: Bad hearing. During the experience: I have no awareness of auditory impressions 1999: Normal hearing. During the experience: I have no awareness of auditory impressions.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     1985-1989: Andreas was an 'in-law' uncle, not akin to me. I have only one memory of him, from this earth time. At the time I was three years old and I loved this man at first sight. 1999: Elage was a stranger, with whom I spent some fateful hours. But he felt like a very nice old friend. I also felt for him a great love, though a controlled love, as it is here on earth.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all-encompassing. Every living being was radiating His light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     1985-89: The flower meadow for me was definitely not on earth. Though I, meanwhile, believe that the earth could have been reached through the wood, like heaven was accessible via the bridge. 1999: For me the hospital room was clearly not of this world, even if it probably looked exactly the same in reality. It was clear for me, that I simply was placed in a 'prison', so that I wouldn't try again, to get into heaven too early.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       1985 - 1989: Absolute, all-encompassing Love.  1989: Absolute, all-encompassing Love, at the end complete sadness. Helplessness   1999: Absolute, all-encompassing Love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     There were no questions without an answer, there. The challenge was not to find the answer, but to find the question!! Everything I wanted to know came to me as knowledge. Though I didn't get any knowledge, that was not transferred to me by Andreas/Elage, or that I personally wasn't interested in receiving.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     But I'm not allowed to remember them

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     1985-89: The flower meadow was limited on one side by the forest (direction Earth?) and on the other side by the brook (heaven).  I illicitly tried to cross the river. But I bounced off a kind of luminous rubber-/plasma 'wall'. My impression was that the whole 'heaven' was made of this plasma, and I could not get in, because my 'body' wasn't subtle enough, to get into the plasma.  Like a balloon filled with air, cannot dive into a lake.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   1985-89: The flower meadow was limited on one side by the forest (direction Earth?) and on the other side by the brook (heaven). I illicitly tried to cross the river. But I bounced off a kind of luminous rubber, plasma 'wall'. My impression was that the whole 'heaven' was made of this plasma, and I could not get in, because my 'body' wasn't subtle enough, to get into the plasma. It was like a balloon filled with air cannot dive into a lake.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   1985:  My parents had not yet started with religious education, but my education definitely had a protestant touch. After this I assembled my own 'religion'.  1999: displeased with all existing religions.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Cannot be determined. Even as a small child I reflected for hours upon life and God, and constructed my own religion. Furthermore I have a relatively keen serenity in relation to religions. However I have little understanding for a priest, insisting that a baptismal verse originates from the BIBLE. After all, the most important thing is the message.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   I don't believe; I know!!! My knowledge doesn't match completely with any religion.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     1985: As I still was very small, I had no belief and so I was not prejudiced. 1999: I already knew how it worked.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     A before/after is not possible. I grew up with the effect of those experiences, and for sure they strongly shaped me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   1985-1989: I came to the realization that heaven is my real home, and the earth a vacation place, that unfortunately just lost interest in entertaining me nicely. 1999: As a little encouragement, I was allowed to sniff a small piece of heaven.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We discussed each time the different aspects of life and their sense. I unfortunately was forced to forget the contents of the discussions.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I could meet deceased people, so those still must have been ‘alive’; furthermore I could exist without a body, what wouldn't be possible if life was restricted to the body.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We discussed each time the different aspects of life and their sense. I unfortunately was forced to forget the contents of the discussions.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is omnipresent and unalterable.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       As I was so little at my first experience, I had not yet much 'personality', the difference cannot be determined. But when I compare myself to people in my surroundings, I realize that they fear death. For a long time I looked forward to it. Today I'm neutral. I have trouble to accept/evaluate psychic experiences. Unfortunately, they have a wrong understanding about many passages of the Bible, Sura [A chapter in the Koran.] - Let themselves be led by petty emotions. - Have difficulties making changes in themselves. Besides: For me God definitely exists, not in the form of an old man but in the form of light that is in everything and everybody.     As I was so little at my first experience, I had not yet much 'personality', the difference cannot be determined. But when I compare myself to people in my surroundings, I realize that they fear death. For a long time I looked forward to it. Today I'm neutral. I have trouble to accept/evaluate psychic experiences. Unfortunately, they have a wrong understanding about many passages of the Bible, Sura [A chapter in the Koran.] - Let themselves be led by petty emotions. - Have difficulties making changes in themselves. Besides: For me God definitely exists, not in the form of an old man but in the form of light that is in everything and everybody.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain It cannot be determined. But I think that the experiences by all means had an influence on my relationships, as they affected my whole personality.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words for many things. Emotions for instance can only be expressed in a limited way. For example with the help of pictures.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can perceive 'spirits' of unborn children; partly precognition and also can 'collect' information consciously. Furthermore I can sense, see or 'know' certain things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The omnipresent love was very important for me. I also missed it a long time on earth. I still miss it, but I now can live well this way. When my mother told me that adult people could 'make love', I was very eager to grow fast into an adult, in order to finally get the love back. Following the first sexual intercourse (love???) I was totally disillusioned. Meanwhile, I have a fulfilling 'love life'. But an orgasm could rather be compared to intoxication, as to the love for which I was looking. The death of Elage was proof for my surroundings that I wasn't nuts and that the experiences were real, the more this experience helped me coming out of my personal middle ages: for a time I had been suppressing and negating all spiritual experiences.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I always told my experiences immediately. They listened. Actually there were no reactions. If they happened, then it came as a kind of shock, because I would have preferred to stay there.  The experience apparently was real.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     During the experience I was more alert as in normal life. The experience was even more real as a reality for me

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     During the experience I was more alert as in normal life. The experience was even more real as a reality for me

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But one part of the experience could be verified.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No    

  Experience Description 9758

  This is my second account on this website. The first one from 2015 describes some of my near-death experiences. 

  Before nearly 10 years, during research for the meaning of my NDE and NDEs in general I came across this site. After writing down my experience I was reading thousands of NDEs with the hope to find out what 'THE PLAN' would be. After all God invited me following my near-death experience with Andreas. And - if I could complete my assignment that was coupled with the plan, well, then I could go back. Finally. But let's start with the beginning:  

  At birth I suffered severe lack of oxygen as well as a complete palsy of the left side. Due to the tireless commitment of my mother (she moved several times per day for 30 Minutes my stiff body parts) I learned - against the prognostic of the doctor- not only to eat by myself, but don't have any bodily handicaps left.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 2023  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         An experience following a near-death experience with the solution of the meaning of the NDE.  Other AHA-Moment  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Normal  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Identical  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Identical  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       relief  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I found the solution - 24 years after I read it for the first time.....  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Scenes from my personal future    I see, how I can see through people.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   My own NDEs that I had again and again since the age of 3 years defined the biggest part of my beliefs.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm practicing forgiveness.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   My own NDEs that I had again and again since the age of 3 years defined the biggest part of my beliefs.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     In the past I believed that God created the world, but I'm now completely convinced that this is altogether impossible.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm now assessing myself only according to the capacity to forgive.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   A dull, monotonous voice speaking with me calling me 'you'.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have been living many lifetimes, but those are parallel and can dissolve.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Oneness is the only thing that exists, all the rest is but a dream.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Exists as energy, love light, abstraction, eternal, Oneness without opposite.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The plan is the redemption of the world, what happens through the enlightenment of every individual. Enlightenment cannot be bought nor inherited but must be acquired my every single one.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Enlightenment  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Yes, life continues. If we reach enlightenment during lifetime, we can afterwards stay in heaven, otherwise we return into the next life.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They are only dreamed and can be dissolved with a forgiving attitude.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is totally one with God and with no opposite. Fear is only dreamed and not true.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Now I know what I need to do. This has changed my attitude from expectant to active.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Usually I share it even if the counterpart is not yet ready. This can activate a change.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The near-death experiences have always been real for me, as well as life was a bad dream.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No    

plndqsx          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1franziska_r_adc.html