{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1franklin_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Franklin R NDE 9433","mylang":"de"}
          	        Franklin R NDE 9433  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Franklin R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5065 Franklin R NDE 9433  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was lying in my bed while sick. I looked up and the wall started to crumble before me. I got out of bed to run to my brothers' room to tell them, but I could not wake them up.  Later, I realized this is because my actual body was lying in bed. 

  I ran back to the room and saw the wall had vanished.  I could see the evening sky with a bright light and what appeared to be a man at the end of the light. The man came closer and closer until he was standing right in front of me. He told me he wanted to show me something. He lifted me under his arm like you would do a child and we lifted off the ground at an incredible pace. We raced through the universe where he told me every name of every planet. I could all at once understand this information even though it was coming at me so fast. 

  We then went to a place which seemed like the middle east. I have traveled my whole life, and this is the closest place I can place the location. We then sat and listened to a young boy talk. Everyone was saying his name was  Jesus. The speech was in a language I had never heard before but somehow I understood. After listening to the speech, the man whisked me up again and we flew back to my bedroom. He told me he would give me this language to remember this event as I would never believe it after I woke up. 

  Following the event, I was so shaken. I could not get out of bed for three days as my legs could not walk. I tried to tell my family and friends about my experience, but nobody believed me. To this day, I can speak this language, which seems after speaking with linguists, that it is a combination of Hebrew, Greek and Arabic. Often times, I hear this same language and I write down what I hear because I find the information fascinating.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1977  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.           Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard a speech during a time in history. I believe it was in the time of Jesus.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It is like I could understand everything all at once. During the speech, I could not only understand the person talking, but everyone elses thoughts.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the speech  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Everything moved incredibly fast as we were flying. When we were seated at the speech, time moved at a normal place.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same before, during and after the event but my other senses were heightened.  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was definitely more vivid during the event. It was like I could hear and understand everything, even peoples' thoughts.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at the beginning of the event, and there was a person in the light moving towards me  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     The places seemed unfamiliar. Although at the same time, I knew we were flying in the universe and then ended up at some place in the middle east. This place was hard to place.
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was terrified while flying. But once we were seated listening to the speech, I felt very calm and peace.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I understood every planet and how it came to be. I understood everything about myself including my past and future. During the speech, I understood everything about the young boy (Jesus) as well as everyone else's thoughts.  
  
  Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.     As I flew through the universe, I understood events about my past, my childhood and parts of my future.  
  
  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     My entire life was shown before me from beginning until end.  
  
Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I have never been religious before this event  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   While this experience gave me so much knowledge, I don't feel like it fits into any particular faith  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I didn't really have any understanding of religion before this event but now seem to hear things pertaining to religion except that it doesn't fit within a specific religion. I also don't have any training in religion, so it is hard for me to place it.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became more aware of my surroundings and understanding of people.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   A man came towards me and showed me everything that I saw that night. This man was old but incredibly strong.  He had a beard but was very well kept. He wore a robe that was draped around him.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I believe I heard Jesus talk as everyone around him was saying his name. I listened to a speech he gave on the Ten Commandments. He was talking and the Rabbis were arguing with him because he was just a boy.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I now am able to understand this language and am constantly hearing information in this language which I write down in English  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe the man next to me was God.  He never specifically said this, I just felt it.  
  
Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It wasn't necessary hard to express, but hard to express to others as it was such an out of body experience  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can speak and understand an unearthly language. It seems closest to Hebrew, but it is not entirely.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The speech was beautiful - I loved listening to it and learning what the young boy had to say.  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared this experience, but no one believes me. Regardless of what people say I know this happened as I continue to "have contact" or "hear" things every day in a language I have never studied in before. People have heard this language but cannot place it; even professional linguists. I am not really sure what to do with the information - people don't really seem interested in it.  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     There is just no way I can wake up with a language I have never heard before. The events today are as clear as the day they happened in my mind.  
  
  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I hear the same voice daily. Sometimes it's just a small piece of information. Sometimes I have to string thoughts together. But, as I am not religious per say, I find it strange that I am hearing these things  regarding information I don't really seem to understand.  
  
Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1franklin_r_nde.html