{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frankie_nde.html","mytitle":"Frankie NDE 3250","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frankie NDE 3250  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frankie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1181  Frankie NDE  3250  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had had a very rough time with having to have my wisdom teeth surgical removed because one had impacted and shattered. I took time off work to have the surgery and was recovering. As soon as I got home from my surgery I started working on my truck, a 1970s model full convertible Chevy Blazer. I had put in a new engine and was attempting to finish getting it to run.

The weekend led up on what began the events. The first day it was running I went out cruising in my truck to see just how well it would run on the road. The first night was uneventful after riding around for a while. The following night I decided to go out partying and halfway to the club I hit a road block and was nailed for no seat belt in use, no license, and no insurance on that particular vehicle.

The next day I was to meet my mom and aunt at the lake for a day of boating. Unfortunately I forgot to ask which lake and went to three different ones and never found them so I decided to drive back home. On my way home, it began to rain, but when I hit the windshield wipers, they didn't work. I was driving down the road head hanging out the window and no top on my truck. I was beyond soaked. I didn't need to go boating after all, I got all the water I needed from the rain.

After arriving back in town, I stopped at McDonalds and got two plain cheeseburgers, something soft because I was still having difficulty eating with having all four wisdom teeth extracted four days prior.

I was heading along Highway 70 toward my grandmother's house, which is a very curvy road, when I dropped my head to take a bit of my burger. At that very moment, I dropped off the shoulder of road. Instinctively, I let off the gas and slowly started back onto the road when I spotted a dark grassy area directly in front of my truck. At that moment, I slammed on the brakes hoping to miss the concrete culvert that ran beneath the road, but that led to the chain of events that led to my condition.

My feet were still wet.  When I hit the brake, my foot slipped off and hit the gas at the very moment of impact. The concrete directed my truck into the ditch and the rear tires lifted off the ground when the front end hit. At that moment, all four hundred horses under the hood started spinning the thirty-five inch off-road tires and when they again impacted, it was more of a space shuttle launch than anything. My truck went straight up into the air and immediately started flipping side over side. I was immediately ejected and run over by my truck. Over two thousand pounds slamming down on top of me at over fifty mph.

Luckily, it was as if another entity was with me at that moment. Immediately after I hit the ground I jumped up and my truck was still flipping. I realized when I raised from the ground that my arms were outstretched like a superman pose. Still dazed and stunned I immediately tried to stop a car for a ride to the hospital. The driver advised me that he couldn't give me a ride because I was scaring his kids with all the blood on me. I responded that I didn't have any blood on me, and he advised me to look down. Upon looking down I realized that I was standing in a pool of blood, yet I was walking, talking, and directing traffic, although I realized I couldn't move my right arm at all. Luckily for me a small child saw and the accident and told his dad and they called the ambulance. Another bit of luck was that I was just outside city limits, because I come from a small town and we didn't have 911 services and only one ambulance service for the whole county.

Upon the arrival of the paramedics, I felt I was completely lucid and asked them to please take me to the hospital. The paramedics advised me that they would have to strap me to a back board. Immediately, I responded with I didn't want to, so three paramedics grabbed me and lay me down on the board. As soon as my head hit the ground, I felt a complete relief come over me. At that very moment, I knew I was free.

I was awake, or so it seemed and everything about me was white and warm. The pain that I had no longer existed and I felt completely at peace. After what seemed like an eternity, the paramedics brought me back and I begged them to let me go. Please, I begged, let me go. After that, they would allow me to close my eyes and kept me talking.

At the local hospital, the doctor looked me over and advised the nurse and later, my wife, to sew me up and send me home. I asked the doctor if I had a right arm because I could not feel it any longer.

The doctor brought out a safety pin, opened it up, and started sticking to the bone all along my right arm. Not once did I flinch because I didn't feel the pin at all. In a stern and shaken voice, he advised the staff to contact the trauma center seventy-five miles away that they were sending me.

En-route to the trauma center, the nurse that later became my wife, rode with me. Halfway to the trauma center, again I passed out. Though this one was not as the first. The light wasn't there, but the peace was all about me. I felt so calm and that my life was complete. Immediately the nurse brought me back.

After three days and four hours of surgery to repair my arm, and over 365 stitches between my right leg and right arm, I wobbled out of the hospital. Diagnosis: Severed radial nerve in right arm (was duly advised by the doctor that I would never use my right arm again); fracture to C7 in my neck; and a large gash around my right calf, that had I broken the bone would have been a loss of my leg below the knee.

Since the accident, everything about me changed. I started sensing things that I never perceived I could sense. Just being near someone, I could feel their love, hate, pain, anger, joy, their very being. Persons that have passed started appearing to me in my sleep. Twelve years now have passed and still the perceptions are alive and very fluent. I have exactly predicted three deaths of persons that I knew, two to the exact time, with both asking me in my dreams to pass messages on to their loved ones. The first person I hadn't seen in over two years when it happened and wasn't even verified till two days later by the daughter of the woman who passed. Although I had shared with my wife and classmates at school the very morning after the dream.

Other occurrences have been with a recent job that required me to enter people's homes. Within seconds of being inside their homes, I could detect entities that didn't belong in the home. On different occasions I would ask the customer's if they were aware their homes were haunted, and in disbelief they would turn and ask how I could know that, for I had been there for less than a few minutes and they had lived there all their lives.

Some of my visions in my dreams have been very daunting and scary. Even now I have to leave on a light and TV so I can sleep, which I get very little of. Nor can there be any door in my home closed.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'June 25, 1995'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      At the very moment that I passed, when I felt myself drawn toward the warmth of the white light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to no longer exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Because their was no sound, yet I could felt complete serenity all about.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     But not so much a tunnel, more so an openness. Everything about was clear and conscious.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     At that moment, NO, but now I see people who have passed in my dreams, in my home, and feel their presence in others homes on several different occasions.

The few that I did know asked me to pass on to their loved ones that they were okay. Some have stood in my home as though they don't know where to go. If I tried to ignore them, I wouldn't be able to rest and would have to turn on every light in the house and open every door.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White and inviting, as though someone was saying take my hand I will help you up.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the plain of whiteness that surrounded me, inviting me without saying a word.  Like sirens singing a silent song, come to me, this way.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, warmth, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not at that moment but as time passed.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     Being from the south, I was brought up with a religious background, but with all the pain I have endured since then regarding health, children, ex-wives, legal trouble, everything, I question what is real and what is not and realize that no matter the person we perceive as God and Jesus. Our fate lies in what may be our next moment in life.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Being from the south, I was brought up with a religious background, but with all the pain I have endured since then regarding health, children, ex-wives, legal trouble, everything, I question what is real and what is not and realize that no matter the person we perceive as God and Jesus. Our fate lies in what may be our next moment in life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  If a loved one is lying or cheating on me I instantly feel it without them ever trying to show it. And one hundred percent of the time, I have caught them. Once my ex went to an abortion clinic, with another man, she was pregnant by and I arrived before they did and I hadn't see her in over a week. The clinic was over two hundred miles away from home.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling that all was clear and no pain at all existed to me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Ability to read people, sense beings that are no longer with us both peaceful and angered. Seeing dead people, talking to deceased persons and relaying messages to their families. On two occasions called the time of death and knew of a pending death of another without a specific date, which passed this year, and was addressed while going through a divorce from my ex. I used argument that my ex's mom would soon pass and that she would have no place to live in regards to custody of our son.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Before, I lived life one day at a time, care free and reckless. Afterward, I saw things in a different perspective.

Before, the only trouble I had was a few tickets, now I deal with stress, insomnia, headaches, nightmares, constantly fighting and defying authority. Meaning if I feel I was wronged or threatened in any way, I returned the threat in a way more hurtful or as equal.

Examples: an ex beat the crap out of me yet when I pushed her off me with a cop as a witness I was arrested and charged.

When I took my wife to court for violating my visitation, the judge rendered a verdict before we even began the trial. I filed a judicial misconduct case against him and recused him from my case.

I have become extremely resourceful. I use every means necessary to find answers and solutions whether it health, legal, or just information for a friend.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Instant, minutes, hours. Being able to tell things about someone without them saying a word. When my ex-wife's father died, she called me to tell me about it and I instead told her that he had passed at 4:30 pm. It was not yet 5:00 pm. When a friend's mom, that I hadn't seen in over two years passed she spoke to me in my dreams and told me to tell her family that she no longer hurt, (she had terminal cancer that I was unaware of). I shared it with my classmates that morning and two days later my friend called me and confirmed the time and date coinciding with my dream.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Uncertain   I had a near death as a child when I almost drowned. I was unconscious when they pulled me from the water but I was so young I don't remember much about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because still twelve years later I can still feel that feeling when I think about it. I still feel the calm; remember the words that were said when I came back and before I left.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     The way I perceive everything in life now. To me before I owned my own home, a truck, a car, a motorcycle, had everything I wanted, more girlfriends than I knew what to do with. Now to me personal effects are nothing. I base worth on who I am and the impact I have on others. The greatest wealth I could ever achieve. Of course the lottery would still be nice.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   I now have panic attacks, and have to take medication for it. I won't get drunk because I don't like not having a 'real feeling' about me - so avoid dazed and confused.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      All of us have a purpose in life, mine may not be to be rich monetarily, but I have learned that my wealth lies in my ability to help others. My belief now is that the only stranger that I know is the person that I have not met.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Instead of bubbles with no, yes, uncertain, answer every question with a written answer. The true feelings can be better expressed than with clicking a bubble. Every experience though similar is different in every way. The emotions, the timing, the person, all changes the answers.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frankie_nde.html