{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank S NDE 6313","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank S NDE 6313  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3067 Frank S NDE 6313  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the summer of '68, I and two of my brothers plus a friend walked into an abandoned building site. On the site, the builder had dug a very deep hole for a generator. It had filled with rainwater. We were looking into the water, trying to see the bottom of the hole, when the embankment at its edge suddenly gave way.  The sliding dirt carried me into the water where I struggled and then drowned.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aug 1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw other people.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious of fact that I did not know where I was.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the water.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time slowed down at first and then 'time' lost meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When the bank at the edge of hole gave way, time felt like it went into slow motion.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything, only splashing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went down a tunnel feet first.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I saw 25-30 people. I did not know any of them.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Yes. It was a matte light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I felt enveloped in light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I felt fear, and then the fear went away.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     About myself.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I did not know where I was.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Religious at the time

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Chrestien

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was only 14 at the time so I did not know what to think

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The only thing in life is happiness.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I could not tell where I was

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes I felt I was on in very different place

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I really don't know.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     The people I saw there were very real to me

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt I past into a new place

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I feel happier.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not understand what was going on.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sometimes tell when people are going to die.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The happiness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was ten years before I told my mother about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The people I saw there were very real to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_s_nde.html