{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_p_nde_4272.html","mytitle":"Frank P NDE 4272","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank P NDE 4272  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2101 Frank P NDE 4272  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on the table in the emergency room and I asked the doctors if they were giving me anesthesia. They told me no, but to try to stay awake. I suddenly fell back and was fully surrounded by an energy of a white light. I have NEVER seen this color white here on Earth. It did not hurt my eyes to see it. I felt relaxed, with no thoughts of my family or my past. I somehow knew I was in the place I have heard others talk about. I do not know how I knew this. I then heard a male voice ask me 'Frank, do you want to go with me or go back?' Without hesitation, I said 'go back'. I immediately felt the shock of the paddles come in on my right chest and cross to the left. With this, I popped up into a sitting position. The doctor asked if I was ok. I said 'yes'. I then do not remember anything else until 24 hours' later, when I awoke in the ICU. It took 2 days to remove the ventilator. As soon as I could speak, I told my wife and daughter what had happened. I was afraid to sleep after this. I felt as though I would go again and not return.  I spoke with a priest in the hospital and my wife about it. I soon realized there was no reason to worry. I realized it did not hurt to die, and when we do we go to a wonderful place that I was privileged to see.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 13, 2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Massive heart attack, coded 3 times.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     After this I had blurry vision for about 30 days.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear people at a distance as though they were next to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I only heard him. I did not see him.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white I have never seen on Earth. It did not hurt my eyes to see it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The experence itself was beautiful

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I only seemed to have eyes and ears.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I find that when I have a few moments I say a few prayers. I NEVER did this before. I do thank God that I am alive today. Of course, my doctors had a lot to do with it too!

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I find that when I have a few moments I say a few prayers. I NEVER did this before. I do thank God that I am alive today. Of course, my doctors had a lot to do with it too!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two days, with my wife and daughter.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard people talk about it. It did not affect my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As much as it was wonderful, I do not want to go back at this time, but I am more ready to go back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a real event.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_p_nde_4272.html