{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank P NDE 2936","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank P NDE 2936  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1023  Frank P NDE  2936  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On Sunday evening around 8:30 pm and after my parents left I collapsed in my bed. The fever hit me like a brick. A person visiting the man next to me asked me if I was okay and I said 'yes'. Then I passed out.

All I remember for the longest time was a black void. I heard nothing, saw nothing and felt nothing. Then I was in a tunnel made of stone. The tunnel was lit but I could not see any end to it. I was stationery in the tunnel but I was not touching the tunnel. The following things happened to me as soon as I was in the tunnel. I could see, I had no pain whatsoever (with a temperature of 106/107 you are in pain) and the greatest feeling of peace and contentment came over me. This feeling is very difficult to explain. There are no adjectives to adequately define this unforgettable feeling. It was all encompassing. Nothing in this world is like it!! Just as this feeling came over me, I started to move and realized that this tunnel had an end.

At the end of the tunnel was the brightest white light that I have ever seen!! When you looked at it, the light did not hurt you like our sun would. I knew that when I touched that light that I was going to die. The light was God. I was not afraid of going there. Then as I was moving towards the light, I realized that I would be leaving my mother and sister with my alcoholic father. I was not going to go. I was going to protect my mother and my sister. The harder I fought not to go the faster I was moving. I fought not to go with every ounce of strength in my being!!! As I touched the light... I was back in the hospital bed.

I was griping the sides of the bed with my hands. The fever had gone, the swelling in my testicle had gone, and I was in a pool of sweat. I was not in my body when I was in that tunnel. I had a form but it still is not clear to me what kind of form that I had. The doctors could not explain why the fever and swelling went away. No medications that they gave me from Thursday through Sunday broke the fever. I was told, and I have read, that if a person has a prolonged high temperature as I did that I should have brain damage. The lord let me live to protect my mother and my sister. He also let me live to become a teacher. I went to college to become an accountant not a teacher. But he guided me to teaching. When I was fifteen, I had a calling to become a priest and I turned the lord down. He led me to teaching. This NDE of mine caused me never to fear death. After we leave this world, there is no pain of any kind. I will never forget that feeling of peace and contentment!!!! I was also left with the understanding from this NDE that money and material things do not matter.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 1959  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in the hospital because of a severe virus infection that settled in my left testicle. I was admitted on a Thursday. I had a temperature that started at 105 and stayed between 106 and 107 until Monday morning. Nothing the doctors did made the fever go away nor the swelling. I saw my temperature charts.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At the very instant of entering the tunnel.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the very instant of entering the tunnel.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     From the instant that I entered the tunnel, time just flew!!! Everything happened ultra-fast.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light was intense but did not hurt to look at it and the form I had was transparent.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything in the tunnel nor before the tunnel in the black void.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As stated before, it was a tunnel made of stone and was lit.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the brightest white light that I have ever seen.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unbelievable peace and no pain!!!  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     There have been many, many times when I have known things were going to happen and they did. I knew that I was going to win a 2002 Chevy truck in April of 2002 when I bought the raffle tickets. I won the truck in October. I knew that my mother was critically ill before it happened in 1975.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   CHRISTIAN/ROMAN CATHOLIC  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not fear death. I know that when I leave this world I will be with the lord and he let me live when I was seventeen to protect my mother and my sister.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   CHRISTIAN/ROMAN CATHOLIC  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do not fear death. I know that when I leave this world I will be with the lord and he let me live when I was seventeen to protect my mother and my sister.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that when I touched the light that I was going to die. The light was God!! I was not afraid to die. To this day I am not afraid to die.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As stated above.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not to fear death, God does exist. I always believed in God before the NDE but the NDE confirmed it. Death is not the end, it is the beginning of something new and better. After death there is no pain!!!!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never talked about the experience with anyone except to my parents and my priest after it happened. They just listened and made no comment. I did not talk about the NDE until I read Dr. Raymond Moody's book 'Life After Life'. That was in 1976. I would tell my students about my NDE to get them to read!!! I used it as a 'hook' to get them to read more. Read anything to become more aware! I did not talk about it for seventeen years.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was not in my body because I did not have any pain of any kind. The light and the unbelievable feeling of peace were the most real things that I have ever experienced.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     You cannot forget the light and peace!!!!! There is nothing in this world like it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_p_nde.html