{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank H NDE 7740","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank H NDE 7740  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3987 Frank H NDE 7740  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember feeling like I was going to pass out from being light-headed.  I did pass out and hit the floor.  I can remember a brief moment of darkness.  Then I was in a room…but not really a room.  It was just a big open space with a pure white background and glow.  I was not aware of a body and I floated into the space, but I did not feel that I was floating.  I was not standing on anything.  I was floating towards a group of people who were out of focus.  I could not identify who they were, but they were dressed in regular clothing.  One person was yelling at me, 'You're not supposed to be here.'  I was still a distance away from them.  Then in a flash, I was aware of my surroundings and watching the gentleman who was giving me CPR.  I heard my wife telling me, 'Please don't leave me!'  I remember feeling very alert, warm and calm when I woke up.  I was not scared and was at peace remembering my experience.  I now know that there is a God and life after our death. I do not want to stand on a pillar and proclaim it, but I feel comfortable with my experience.  I wish I knew what my purpose for being alive is.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/30/2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   My heart flat-lined and I passed out and hit the floor.  I was given CPR for approximately 2 minutes prior to my recovery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was a different type of alertness, I did not know where I was but that did not matter.  The intensity of the pure white was striking, but yet, it was soft.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the area of pure bright white light even though the individuals in the group were out of focus.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In everyday vision, things are distinct both sound and vision with a mixture of colors, textures and activities. During my experience, the light was pure yet soft.  Things were sharp yet out of focus somewhat when looking at the group of people.  I could make out bodies or figures yet not really in well-defined focus, standing upright yet not standing on anything.  I was somewhat just floating towards them slowly and I could hear them yelling or talking that I was not to be here yet I still remember that I heard that, but yet I did not hear it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was ok, from the point of view that I was aware of them saying something, yet in my memory, the exact words seemed out of focus.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could not identify, specifically, anyone; they were there, yet out of focus.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The purest white light, bright but yet soft.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None, other than peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I belive in God, but not a strong church attendee.  I have not found a church that I feel oomfortable with.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I still have to find the right venue for me to practice my beliefs.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   After this experience, I know that god exists and there is a life after death.  I know I have a mission to do but I do not know what that mission is at the moment.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a stronger religious/spiritual feeling.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a loud voice, but yet I could not fully understand it; but knew that it said I was not supposed to be there yet.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that there was and is a God.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I just had a strong feeling that i was in the presence of God,  I did not see him as such.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw individual even though I could identify them, but they did exist in my mind.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I feel much more religious/spiritual, but I am not sure how to practice that.  This has been a problem all my life.     I feel much more religious/spiritual, but I am not sure how to practice that.  This has been a problem all my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I definitely feel more at peace.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was different; things were sharp yet had softness and a general feeling of peacefulness.  I was not scared.  It is just a different experience that I do find difficult to describe the overall feeling.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I just do not know.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that God exists

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family and some friends.  I am not sure other than I tell them that I know God exits.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real, immediately after I awoke.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know it was real, no questions about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_h_nde.html