{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_g_nde_31670.html","mytitle":"Frank G NDE\/ADC 31670","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank G NDE/ADC 31670  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank G NDE/ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2012 Frank G NDE/ADC 31670  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On Aug 2. I was traveling west bound sixty miles per hour on my motorbike and ran into an uninsured/drunk motorist in a car traveling east crossed over and ran right into me head-on, I folded up over the hood and my legs detached at my femur and feet wanted to follow the bike under the car. Somehow, I pulled loose and ended up spinning around in the gravel it was awful.  When the ambulance came, I thought it was good time to pass out! I knew I was going to die and I was ready! Then I woke up surprised and upset, I was in hospital, then people, nurses and assorted staff where sticking tubes down my throat, sticking needles, probing and poking and I thought this is the best time to leave! I checked out plain and simple, I was so happy to leave the pain of the world behind me! I flew through the walls and ceiling and left the building. Yes, there was a light, a tunnel to aim for, but the ride was in auto-pilot. Now here's where things get real interesting. The Gates of Heaven! I found myself looking in but could not get in! I started to knock, knock on the gates to Heaven. The sights where out of this world, people playing having a great time. The sight and sounds greater than anything we know musical notes and sounds just greater than works can explain. The visual effect was endless amount of bright colors (using color to try to paint the color). Again, words are too simple! As I became accustomed to the sights and sound, I was delighted I was in the right place, yet the gates would not open! Then what seemed like forever, might have been just a second-time did not exist or was slowed down-all I wanted was IN! Yet here I was banging on what seemed like golden gates, as a graceful, faceless spiritual being taller than myself. He/she(?) told me  'I am not ready! Have to make the planet a beautiful place!'  'Of course I argued with that being, even explaining what can I do with a twisted body yet they communicated the same over, 'it's not my time to join them’ Then I was given a big PUSH! I always think of Christmas Store when Santa pushes Ralph down the slide.

It SEEMED like forever as I floated above the multi-story building hospital, I was in some control. I knew I was heading back to my body yet defied entering. As I closed in on the room containing my shell of a body. I could see the support Team of endless, countless people running back and forth, I hovered a little while then all of a sudden, I was back in my body, the pain, the hurt, emotions!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aug 2 1976
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?  Yes

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Slight sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Slightly drowsy

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     yes, the one entity told me it's not my time and go back to my body

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   WAS a wild one, lived all over the world, dreamed that I would die before my 20th birthday so I lived life to fullest

What is your religion now?       No Response   AFTERWARDS I changed, stopped worring about ME & STARTED WORRYING about you! The health of mankind, the energy level of the sprit within each & every one. can feel the cosmos, took yrs to fully realize what I was left with, at first  knew there was something, every once in a while strange things happen, would love to explain but don't want you to think I'm nuts

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm spiritual can feel the energy of the everything it's really unusual yet feels normal at time  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    N0 comment     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's like trying to explain what a BANANA taste like, try it! Now compound that thousands fold! The sights and sounds are still with me to this day, just like if it happened this morning, I can't remember what I did last week, how come I can remember everything that happened!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people are very open others act like I have three heads

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, but I'm tired and would like to return

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Let people know how long it is! It’s 3 am. I kept falling asleep since I started a 9 am, plus it would be helpful to be able to return to add more info in. I feel it’s very incomplete since I'm so tired      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_g_nde_31670.html