{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank G NDE 20412","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank G NDE 20412  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						411  Frank G NDE  20412  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In 1974 I was doing drugs and alcohol.  I was an atheist, life had no purpose, I was somewhat depressed.  Me and three other guys decided to go swimming after work at one guy's apartment complex.  Before going to the pool, we drank and smoked marijuana.  At the pool, I decided to swim across the pool underwater.  The weird thing about this is that I do not know how to swim.  Didn't think about that, though, just decided to swim across the pool.  About halfway across I thought, 'I am swallowing too much water,' but I did not panic, it was just a thought.


The next instant I am sitting in a meadow.  Everything seems perfect - the grass, the sky, my being there - it seems like I belong there and I am not surprised to be there, it just seems very natural.  I do not remember that I drowned or anything about the life, I just left.  Being there seems to be all there is.  There is no sense of past or future, just NOW.  After a while, I see someone far off in the distance.  He is too far away for me to see his face, but it seems like I know him.  In a way, he seems to be ME.  He said, 'Are you ready?'  But it was thought transference or telepathy instead of audible language.  As he said this he knew, as I did, that I was not ready.  I also understood that this was an adjustment to get me back on the path back home.  Also, there are many paths that lead home and whichever one I chose would be perfectly alright with him.  This is when I realized that I had died, and I had to go back.  I screamed, 'NOOOOOOOO!!!' that's when I woke up.


My friends said I was unconscious ten or fifteen minutes, but when you are scared, as they were, time goes by very slowly.  It seems to me that only ten to fifteen seconds had elapsed.  In a way, it seems that I created this event in order to get out of my worthless life.  Trying to swim when I didn't know how; no panic when I swallowed too much water; meeting someone who I thought was ME, all of it seems like a subconscious desire to change my life.  Anyway, it worked.  Ha Ha!!! I am living happily ever after.


Seek the silent mind and the open heart, Frank.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 1974

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I wasn't aware of my body, but that is often the case in 'reality'.  Focus determines awareness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I had drank a beer and smoked a joint.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time didn't seem to exist, there only seemed to be NOW.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     This is described above, but again, a man in the distance, seemed VERY familiar, like if he were ME, said 'are you ready', also get back home by whatever path you choose.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peacefulness and the rightness of being there.  These are not emotions but that is what I felt.  Also I felt fear, once I realized that I was dead, but I don't know if the fear was about being dead or having to come back.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware that I had to come back.  Don't know who made that decision.  I kind of think I decided, long before the event occurred.  The emotion I felt was fear.  Not sure if fear was caused when I realized that I had died or that I had to come back.  Coming back was not a pleasant experience.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none

What is your religion now?      Liberal   spiritualism

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     But not immediately.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   No one I knew wanted to hear it; attempts to communicate were met with silence.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My abilities stem from studying and meditation, but everyone has those abilities.  Yes, it did happen after.  Long after.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part is that I came back as the same person.  I was still a druggie.  I didn't have any special abilities.  I still had to get myself together on my own.  The best part is that I found that I am a part of ALL THAT IS for whom I am experiencing this life.  And when it is over He wants me to come home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Years ago, when I mentioned my experience with others their reactions were usually silence.  Now people are more open to this sort of thing because of the shift in consciousness toward the new spiritualism.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      To return to the SOURCE, seek the silent mind and the open heart.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think you have asked all the necessary questions.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_g_nde.html