{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank C NDE 4645","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank C NDE 4645  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frank C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2354 Frank C NDE 4645  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I was put in an ambulance, I was above watching what was going on.

Next, I was at a place where the sky was a golden yellow.  There was a gate to my left. I felt so at peace, in no pain and seemed to be aware that this was where I wanted to be. I believe I was just outside the gates of Heaven.

There were people all around me but I couldn't make them out. Then my daughter, who had died 08/31/1998, came up to me, hugged me and told me that she loved me. She then told me it was not my time to be here and I had to go back. I told her, 'No, I am going to stay.' She then told me that I would be here soon enough and I had to go back. I told her I was going to stay, that your mom and brothers would be okay. Then my grandmother came up to me hugged me and called me by my nickname Dennis. She said that I had to go back, that my grandchildren needed me. At that time, I had two grandsons. She also said I was going to have two granddaughters. (Which I do have now.) I could never argue with my grandmother, so I said, 'Okay I'll go back.'

I then returned to my body. I was in hospital on a ventilator and unable to move, talk or open my eyes. I could hear people talking but couldn't answer. The next day I came out of coma.  I stayed on the ventilator for another day.

There was an angel standing next to me I called him 'Bob'. After I could talk, I told my story to everyone who would listen.

To this day, no doctors can explain what caused me to stop breathing. I was in hospital for a total of sixteen days. I was unable to walk. Now I am being treated for Rheumatoid Arthritis and am finally able to function.

I make sure I see my grandchildren at least once a week. Being with them and playing, teaching is such a great experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/05/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'Drug reaction, stopped breathing.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had stopped breathing and was put on ventilator in an ambulance and put in the intensive care unit at hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time I was at the gates of Heaven.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I was at the gates of Heaven.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were bolder, brighter.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative, but also: There were people all around me but I couldn't make them out.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all around me. I didn't follow the light, it was just there.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That I would have two granddaughters.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It seemed to me that the life and worries I had before didn't matter. There was an inner peace and contentment.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love being around people, around grandchildren and meeting new people to share my life with.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Talking with my daughter and grandmother. I now have no fear of death. I have a reason for living. The pain of life is only temporary.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience as soon as I could talk. I have shared this to everyone that I meet. The reactions are great.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My daughter's death really caused me to emotionally disconnect with the real world. I was just existing not living. Now I have joy when I think of our meeting. She has since come to me in a dream where we just sat and talked. It was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_c_nde.html