{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frank_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Frank A NDE 645\/450","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frank A NDE 645/450  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Frank A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						645  Frank A NDE  190  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  12/6/2002

  				  I woke up one night with my heart was racing.  About 1:30am, I woke my wife and told her to feel my heart.  She says, 'it's going real fast.'  I went downstairs to let it blow over.  Instead, it got worse.  So, I called the ambulance.  By the time it finally came, I blanked out.  At the same time, I felt myself go into a dark tunnel like a big tube.  A light came from the direction I was going.


In a distance I can see a bright white light as I came closer I can see a woman who was radiating love.  She was pure, white light and a soft rainbow color came from her heart.  She asked me to walk into her, which I did.  I felt the magnetic energy of peace, unity, and love in its purest form.  I remember thinking that this place is where I come from.  She asked me to go in farther.


I came across a wall of books that stood about 30 feet high and went both ways as far as the eye can see.  I went closer to read the covers. ENERGY poured from the wall and came into me. I can feel the energy emptying into me, like water until it was just trickling stream.  I started to pull away; the woman's beautiful voice told me that I could go back now.  I came out of the woman and started back into the dark tunnel.


I snapped back into my body so fast and gasping for air. The ambulance attendant jumped up.  He came into the back of the ambulance and said, 'We were taking you to cold storage!' while putting on the wiring to the heart and oxygen.  I went back to sleep for two days.  I woke up in the ICU.


A nurse was sitting to the right of me writing. I looked at her and knew all about her past present and future.  When I looked out, saw the trees, and mother earth, I felt the same. I knew her.  I also began to feel pain when people came around or just passing by the room, emotional and physical energy. I can read energy the energy that is flowing from the person shows me their past, present and future, emotional and physical.  I can't explain it. I just know what to do, the psychology and energy is wow!!

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1987

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Heart attack  heart just stopped  Clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like coming out of warm water a bubble.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Like I'm wide awake. Weird feeling.  Been there before feeling.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the voice of the beautiful lady.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel was like a dark tube.  Yet, I still could see it was curved and went upwards from the feeling of pull.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     At the end of the tunnel, stood a beautiful woman of pure, white light.  She told me what to do and I obeyed. She asked me to walk into her and go in.  After the wall, she said I can go now.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   As I was going into the tunnel I can see alight ahead.  It was as if this light was guiding me towards it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was the most beautiful feeling of love that one can only say one has to experience it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was shown all the past lives I've lived. Goes back to beginning of time, each time I came back into different culture and race but still doing the same thing helping people, the understanding of absolute truth and share that wisdom. Life is simple when you know what life is all about.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     The understanding to why mother earth always goes through a cleansing process. It's all about energy, positive and negative.  We are like farmers and are going to reap what we have planted at harvest time.  It's not going to be nice from the way things are going at the present. We have a choice.  We can change what's in the future for mankind.  Mother earth does not have to go through her usual cleansing like during the time of the dinosaurs.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   the lady told me to go and I began to go back. No question asked. Almost like I have done it many times before.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I began to take my grandparents' teachings a lot more serious.

After the NDE: 

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Energy lots of energy and the knowing all seems normal. the ability to purify anything I touch, my body is like an energy radiator, people can feel me coming miles away.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was experiencing the pain and death of mankind's future in huge masses, millions of people leaving at the same time and the knowing that it does not have to be that way.  The best part is seeing the little hope of light in the center of the dark void, this hope of light shines in all our hearts.  This light gives mankind a chance to change the now energy flow which is strongest on the negative side.  The planet that is coming is a negative energy; the energy that is present will attract it like a magnet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only with those who have died and been to the other side they are the only ones that understand.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      If everyone went through the NDE and remember this world we live in would be different, religion and political, it would be a better place.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      what it's all about. At the end of it all, it's all about love. Loving self unconditionally.

  	Experience Description  10/20/2001

  					The last NDE, I woke up in the morning, about 1:30 a.m.  My heart was racing, so I called the ambulance.  When it came to pick me up, I went into a deep sleep.  I came into a tunnel I have been in before. It was a dark tunnel; I move forward into the tunnel and see a bright light as I came closer.


It was a woman pure white light, her face had an oval shape covering her face, gloves that went from her elbow to her hands, dark brown.  She asked me to walk into her so I did.  I felt the purest love, peace, unity, and energy flowed through me.  I just hummed as I stood there in the pure white light.  She asked me to go farther in.


I moved in deeper and I saw a wall of books that spanned as far as the eye can see.  As I moved closer to read the labels on the books, it quickly went blurry.  All I saw was Roman numbers.  At that same time, the energy that came out of the books was energy that covered me inside and out.  When I tried to focus on the wall of books again, it was a weird sensation that I knew everything contained in the wall of books.  I knew past, present and future.  I started to back away from the wall and out of the pure white spirit, back into the tunnel, and into my body.


Two days later in the hospital, I woke up in ICU.  There was a nurse who sat next to me.  I smiled as I looked at her. I knew things about her.  I looked out the window and saw the world with different eyes. I knew what is wrong. I knew why people hurt each other.  I knew why people get ill. Don't ask me how, now, I just know.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1987

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Heart attack  heart just stopped  Clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like leaving your car. Or like walking out your door and into another place. I was pure yellow and blue energy.  I can still see my form. I went to other places after and during my NDEs.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert and remember like it just happened.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no time.  I had a totally relaxed feeling of nothing to worry about.  I knew I was in different place

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    All energy.  The voice of the lady she speaks to the heart with pure energy of love.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I learned that there are many tunnels. This tunnel was dark but I could still see where to go.  I followed the light that shone ahead.  I relaxed and went to the light.  I also relaxed because the spirits in the tunnel knew what to do. I knew the reason for being on the other side and that I would return with new knowledge

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I always went into the light. In behind the walls, I can hear kids playing.  At times, I can get a glimpse of the people. Holes would open up for a second in the tunnels.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a light at the end of the tunnel.  It was a woman of pure white light. She reminded me of mother Mary.  The woman had a veil that went from her head to her feet.  Her face had a dark brown oval shaped mask that covered her face.  On her arms, from her elbow to her fingers, she wore a long glove.  In her heart, there was energy like rainbows.  She almost looked like a mist, or fog, with a bright light in her heart.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Wow, a lot of places, many different places. There are beings I had never seen before.  The one thing that allows us to make a connection in all the different dimensions and beings is pure unconditional love and knowledge that there is only one truth, one creator.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had a feeling I had a great responsibility on the other side and the knowledge and wisdom is endless compared to what we know here on earth. We may think we are far ahead in science and technology. But, we are so far behind on earth.  We are like newborn babies that drop things and watch for your re-actions.  You will notice at first cries, so you come running. The baby giggles.  That's the stage man is in.   I remember before I was born and the instruction given to me. I was gifted already, but the NDE gave me more clarity with awareness of lots of guides.   I know what's in store for mankind. It's already in play.  Man is too full of ego they can't see it coming. The old idea that 'it will never happen to me' illusion the world is full of it

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Past life. Wow. I have learned that i have come back into many different cultures [races], always coming back as a healer and bringing people back into the light. Empowering people to becoming what they are meant to be.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can feel earth quacks a day before it happens on earth, I can feel the energy and the energy creates images of the events.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I just knew when I was done and the reason for going to other side. The sweet voice would say 'o.k. you can return now.'

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I let go of my entire ego.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Some very powerful experiences.  There was sizzling lightning covering my body with blue light. There was a pyramid with blue energy surrounding it.  I showed up and in front of me, a lady's voice says put your hands through it.  Now, I can do amazing things with my hands.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part was that the energy was so pure, the peace, and feeling of unity. The worst part is knowing I had to come back to mankind, because now I know what and where man screwed up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only a few people. The non-believers think you are weird.  I think they are funny.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have learn that we all have abilities we bring to the table that reconnects us to the universal energies, many different dimensions. The bridge to this is love in its purest form.  We all have that in the center of our hearts. Absolute truth is what takes you there, to the center of the universe

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Everything is straight forward questions are good. Like I SAID, it WOULD BE A LOT BETTER TO DO THE INTERVIEW IN PERSON, that way I can show you.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frank_a_nde.html