{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francois_o_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Fran\u00e7ois O Probable NDE 6949","mylang":"de"}
          	        François O Probable NDE 6949  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					François O Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3495 François O Probable NDE 6949  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Trying to describe the events that happened on the evening of the 26th December 2010 is an exercise that seems difficult, in the way that it is the first time that I'm doing it.

It happened almost three years ago.

Christmas took place together with the family and it seems that I had the desire to escape, see something else. I had the feeling to suffocate.

I wanted to go out, see the world, to intoxicate, feasting; forget the family, forget the life as a student that seemed to be a weight.

That's what I did. Went out to a bar in Paris, have a drink. Then another one. And still another one.

Continuing the tour of the bars. Always drinking the alcohol alone.

In the course of the evening, chance encounters happen. And I let myself being lulled by the encounters, keeping up with the alcohol, oblivion, and debauchery.

Later in the night, I entered a pub and continue drinking. And encounter, probably the one person too many, probably drink one glass too many; He is a man proposing me to come with him in his hotel where cocaine and GHB are waiting to complete this night soon well stocked.

I'm so intoxicated that I am incapable to think about the people I love, incapable of having a clear conscience, incapable of taking care of myself; the oblivion of my world is at close hand.

The hotel room is pleasant with a big desk already covered with cocaine. Alternating the doses with some drops of GHB in an umpteenth glass of whiskey-coke, the room starts spinning.  I hear a man with his soft voice that lulls me.

But dawn is braking and the dream turns into a real nightmare. The man has to go to work, and leaves me alone in the room. It's not for long, an hour at the most.

My family is trying to contact me on my phone, as yes I forgot that we had to leave for London in the same evening.

The cocaine is oppressing me and what I believed being a drunken freedom, forgetting everything.  All this is coming back to me, like a badly thrown boomerang, that's coming back to you, right into your face.

Now I hold the 3/4 bottle of GHB in my right hand and swallow the whole thing.

Finally, I lay down on the bed, sad and helpless but soon appeased. I take a long breath and fall asleep panting. Then nothing anymore.

Blackness. Start of NDE. 

I'm in a kind of matter. It's a cold black matter, but it is pleasant as I'm one with (part of) this matter. It's as if this matter was the extension of my body.

My body is weightless in this matter. Little by little, I start to distinguish that this matter has a huge space. It is as if I found myself at the other side of the Universe. All around myself is sidereal space. I'm flying while floating in the Universe. I feel good. All my fears are gone.

My body is in communion with the black matter. I then move my arms and legs. It's an unbelievable sensation of reality. I'm pleasantly amazed. I start dancing. I'm dancing with the matter. I feel so good.

Then at my left, perpendicularly to my body, a man appears. It's difficult for me to describe this man flying through the Universe like me. At the beginning, I had the feeling to see myself.  It was as if I was seeing my double. But the more I move my arms and legs, the more I dance while flying, the more I identify the man as being Jesus.

Jesus is looking at me. There's nothing Christ-like at him, but I know that it's Jesus. I know it as this man has a smile and a look that I never saw before. A smile and a look speaking of love. I saw Jesus who was smiling at me and loving me, and the more he looked at me the more I felt at ease.

Then he looked away from me, and looking to the same direction as he did, I saw myriads of stars all around me. It was a sight of beauty.

WONDERFUL.

Between those stars, one of them in front of me is holding back my attention.

And there I didn't fly anymore on the spot. My body, gracefully and with an absolute well-being, propelled itself forward, the chest oriented horizontally, towards this star. I went faster and faster. Maybe even faster than light speed.

The stars surrounding me lost their shape due to this speed, and it seemed as if I was traveling through a tunnel.

And the light in front of me was warm, full of love. The light grew bigger and bigger and I felt even better. When the light filled my complete field of vision. I woke up.

End of my coma of 72 hours after a cardiac arrest. I woke up in hospital, in a much lesser mood than in my NDE experience. I vomited and suffered headaches during 12 hours at least. I was crying all the tears that my body could give. I love my family, my friends and the man that I'm going to marry. 

Today I'm healed of my loneliness and my fear of life. Today I can live.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  29.12.2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Suicide attempt. Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  After my experience I regularly dreamed about tsunamis;  And the night preceding the Japanese tsunami, I dreamed of it with plenty of dead people. The following morning I told this dream around and at midday all the people I talked to, confirmed that it was true - a premonitory dream. I don't know if it is connected to my experience, but it would be interesting to know if those have aftereffects, days and month following the event; all the while I often wondered myself about this.    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More consciousness and alertness than normal   The experience that I lived is very intimate for me.  It is so very different of a simple dream that one could have, as the dream is very often disconnected, be it from the body, or from a sense, or from an emotion; I want to say by this, that during my experience all was linked and well linked, my whole body and soul were active.

  Then it is a real experience, different of 'every day' experiences, as - and it's doubtless difficult to hear - there is an almost undefinable chemical bonding. I understand that laws that we are not suspecting govern your soul and your body.  That nobody nowadays is able to comprehend. Maybe I'm wrong but the light was of another brightness as the brightness of the sun for instance; it was a purer light, more white and more visible. Of a philosophical point of view for example; it is as if I came out of Plato's cave and that I saw and felt another world, the real one. And when returning to the cave (my waking up after the coma) the world took a new meaning, a meaning that makes sense, a world of the love of truth.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My state of lucidity was in the first moment. I have difficulties believing that I'm floating and dancing in the Universe.  It's a state of absolute consciousness as I realize it immediately and am amazed about it.  It's as if I was in an abstract world. The world of the absolute.  A world of ideas, of love, of presence, of void and fullness at the same time.  My encounter with Jesus is the second most lucid moment, as it is not so much the person that marked me (how he was, did he have a crown on his head) no, it's rather the CONNECTION, the LINK of love, loyalty, trust, comprehension. This connection between us was like being indestructible, strong, reassuring, and so protective.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision, under the influence of drugs, alcohol, and absence of sleep was quite vague, even if normally I have no problems of vision.  The vision during the experience was an omniscient vision; I saw everything at the same time. My sense of vision was tenfold even if sometimes certain details slip away, especially about Jesus.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing before the experience was quite normal: I remember cars in the street, the noise of the horns.  During the experience, it is as if I was in a soundproof world; it is as if you came into a space that was totally covered with fiberglass.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Well-being, Love, Joy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     To comprehend means to take it along, I took it along.  To comprehend also means to put words on it, I try to do this  Emotionally it was a union, a comprehension of an almighty love, afterwards, to put words on it will doubtlessly take the rest of a life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     But nevertheless I will explain it.  I believe in Jesus and in God, but it is very intimate to me.  I don't believe in church, because church, and this is personal, is crammed full of dogma, of principles that prevent and sometimes scleroses outdated ideas, and ideas on the fringes of our era.  And I'm also homosexual and it is difficult for me to nowadays hear the bias of church about this.  There is a total disconnection, between my experience with my very intimate encounter with Jesus and God, and the vain encounter with church, wherein I don't fit as may others too, today.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   J'ai été baptisé chrétien à l'âge de 2 ans.  J'ai également fait mes deux communions.  Puis peu à peu, étant homosexuel et n'adhérant pas aux idées de l'Eglise, je m'en suis détourné jusqu'à ignorer totalement la religion.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     je ne croyais pas  j'aimais à moitié et bien souvent que pour moi  je me voilais la face  je cherchais toujours le bon dans le mal  je fermais souvent les yeux  j'avais peur de vivre   tout ça mon expérience et ma rencontre avec Dieu et Jésus car je les ai rencontré et je suis sûr qu'ils existent maintenant (avant j'avais de grands doutes( tout ça ne fait plus parti de ma vie   j'aime  et je veux donner de l'amour   et prendre soin des gens que j'aime.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     To love better, to help better, to feel better

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I remember that Jesus took more or less my appearance  His eyes were black, transparent, a warm smile that would cradle you

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Je me souviens que Jésus avait plus ou moins pris mon apparence.  Ces yeux étaient noir, transparent   un sourire chaud dont on voudrait se laisser bercer.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     L ' A M O U R

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LE DON  NE PLUS AVOIR PEUR  LE DON  AVANCER TOUJOURS  LE DON  L'ETONNEMENT DE TOUT  LE DON  LA COMPREHENSION  LE DON

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Again it is my connection to the world that has changed. An opening of love brought me back to the essentials by simply loving.  And to choose life.    

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Premonition dream

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I didn't know exactly

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This encounter with absolute love always stayed very concrete, in the sense as the experience is present in myself like a stamp, an indelible mark, an intensive bodily memory.  During the months following the event, love was making me cry a lot.  This seems strange but it happens that I think about it and I start crying.  They are no tears of sadness or sorrow: they are tears of reconciliation with the world that don't dry up

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The question about 'aftereffects' of an NDE days and months after.  When is this happening? How is this happening?   For instance, three month after, I had a premonitory dream of the tsunami and why could a link be made with the NDE?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francois_o_probable_nde.html