{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francisco_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Francisco R NDE 5330","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francisco R NDE 5330  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francisco R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2828 Francisco R NDE 5330  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In those years we lived in a house with an outdoor patio. It was separated from the street by a two-meter high wall. The day before my experience, some clothes and other items had been stolen from the patio. This was of concern to me because I slept in a bedroom where access was through that patio. So the first thing I did was install a rudimentary electric fence using one of my dad's transformers which raised the normal voltage from 110 to 150v (a very dangerous thing to do and not to be copied). This was to keep anyone from entering the patio by jumping over the wall. Every night when it got dark, I intended to connect the electrical device and electrify the fence. I figured that it would be even safer if padlocks were installed on all doors with access to the patio. I went off to the ironmonger's to buy some padlocks. In the meantime, my mum was tidying things up on the patio that the thieves had knocked over. When she re-installed the galvanized metal clothesline that the thieves had knocked over, she inadvertently connected my electric fence to the metallic tube that provided water to the patio's washing area. This tube was the only metal part of the mainly PVC washing installation. The PVC would not conduct electricity, which meant that the electric fence was no longer grounded. 

Feeling tired and stressed from the work of installing the fence and the robbery, I decided to have some beers on my way home (in those days it was normal in Colombia for teens as young as thirteen to drink beer!). When I arrived home, I started the task of installing padlocks to the doors and connecting my electric fence; but the beers had made me so tired that I lay down and fell asleep.

Around 2 hours later I woke up and because of all that beer, I wanted to go to the toilet. That is when the problems started. In order to go to the toilet, I would have to unlock 3 padlocks so instead; I decided to pee on the plants on the patio. Not bothering with anything off I went, barefoot to pee on the patio plants (who uses shoes when you are 15 years old and needing the toilet?). It was pouring down rain and everything was soaking wet, including the stone patio floor. Everything was going okay so far, but I was also very thirsty so decided to drink some water from the washing place. So standing there in the rain, half-dressed and barefoot, I put my hand on the tap and BAM! I felt this electric shock surge through me! Immediately I was completely paralyzed!  I was fully conscious of everything, in particular the fact I had been a fool trying to be an electrician and that I had made a potentially fatal mistake. I fought with all my might to open my hand but it was glued to the tap, as if they had been cast together in the same mold. I could not speak nor move my legs, nothing. I fought and fought but could not even move my lips to cry for help, let alone move my hands. This fight must have lasted at least 2 minutes and then resignation took over. There was no strength left in me to struggle any more. I gave in, I gave up my life and let myself die, still feeling the harsh vibration from the electric current. But I did not care anymore. I had been defeated. 

In that precise moment, I started to see myself from above. There was no pain any more, no cold, no hunger only tranquility and an immense peace. I saw my body being hurt by the electric current, but I did not care at all. The feeling of peace was so overwhelming that I did not need anything from this world. I realized that I was dead and that my body was just another nail that had fallen. I understood I had neither body nor eyes but my consciousness was intact, and I felt I could perceive the world with something close to omniscience; it was as if I knew everything. Then I started to leave. I could see the universe very far away at the end of a tunnel. Then I had this feeling ’wait a minute, I am dying and I have had no sons nor have I had a girlfriend and I wanted to have all that!’ I did not want to die without having had a full life! In that precise moment, I was back inside my body, feeling the electric current going through me and the cold rain falling on my face. I was not afraid and then realized I could move my right foot! I started to lift it further and further up until I could rest it on the sink. With my foot pushing on the sink, I leaned backwards with all the force I could muster and found I was able to let go of the tap. The moment my hand let go, I let loose the loudest scream I had ever screamed in my whole life and fell backwards onto the floor.

The rain was falling on my face as I lay there and I watched as my whole family rushed to me on the patio to see what was going on. The only thing I could say was ‘Do not touch anything! There is electric current!’  I jumped up and went to disconnect the current. It was then I felt the pain in my hands and feet and saw that they were bleeding. With the help of my brothers, I went to the bathroom to clean my wounds. To my astonishment, I saw that under the blood there were no wounds at all. It was then I remembered that I had been on the ‘other side’.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Electrocucion.  Other Electrocucion a 150 voltios  The minute I gave up I knew it was the end and there was nothing else for me but to accept death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of my body my level of consciousness was amazing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was different; I do not know. Maybe there is no time there?

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see anything I wanted rather like changing a TV channel. I was not limited by the abilities of my physical eyes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw I was moving away but I did not know whether it was a tunnel or a hole in space.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Estaba claramente en otro lugar que no pertenece a esta dimension.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. The kind of peace you can only feel in the other world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     For a while, maybe a year after the experience, I was able to dream about what would happen to me the next day. I practiced in order to improve that ability but once had a premonition of something bad that was going to happen so decided to stop doing that.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before my experience I was an atheist. Since my experience, I have been going deeply into to profound meditations about life and existence. I can see that there is an order in things. I have come to believe there is a being that created everything and it is the origin and destiny of everything.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before my experience I was an atheist. Since my experience, I have been going deeply into to profound meditations about life and existence. I can see that there is an order in things. I have come to believe there is a being that created everything and it is the origin and destiny of everything.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My consciousness was at very high levels.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Time was different. I had no body, but my level of consciousness was better than usual.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     As above.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my family what had happened the very same day. I have never had any problem sharing it with friends or family as I feel honored at having had this wonderful experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right away, I knew the experience was ‘definitely real’.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still know that the experience was ‘definitely real.’

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francisco_r_nde.html