{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francis_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Francis M NDE 928","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francis M NDE 928  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francis M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						516  Francis M NDE  928  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

After running into the electricity pylon I only remember the black existing around my body. I don't think I was aware of what was happening but I remember the extraordinary feeling of wellbeing. I did not feel any pain anymore. Nothing existed anymore, there was only my spirit and the voices surrounding me were the firefighters' voices who arrived a little after to take me to the hospital. It is at that time that I saw my body from above. The electroencephalogram was flat.


I was impressed by the words used by the firefighters, 'He is fainting, we are losing him,' whereas it seemed not to me - I was there but I was unable to say anything, as if I was dead and at this moment I felt some fear. Then, I felt a heat, so soft, invading my body. I turned back and I saw one person who held my hand and who told me, without moving its lips, 'Come, don't be afraid. I am here to help you and to go with you before you recover your place on this earth. It is not yet the time for you; you still have so much things to do.'


When I awoke, I was lying on a bed, in a hospital, with a perfusion of morphine because, in this accident, I had not been only dead for a while, but I also lost the use of my left arm, which will remain forever paralyzed. On waking, I learned that I had been in a coma for three months and that the family had ordered a tombstone in the small cemetery of the city (I reassure you, since that time, it has been taken out). What I keep from this experience is only one small part of my life that I keep without talking about, in a corner of my memory.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    26/11/1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Loss of all sensitivities.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't see my terrestrial body. It was as if I had a mask but if I looked at what I wanted to see, I saw it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was in a coma.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The time which passed during this experience appeared short to me compared to the coma which lasted three months.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The person who held my hand came with me in the tunnel but we didn't reach the end.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A halo of bright light which did not dazzled.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Feeling of wellbeing.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The fear of not being understood.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst is to be back, the best is to be back too.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francis_m_nde.html