{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francis_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Francis G NDE 7208","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francis G NDE 7208  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francis G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3663 Francis G NDE 7208  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The day before I made love to a woman in Colorado, who called herself a witch. I was a fast-living free spirited soul, and have studied TAOISM and some of the mystic energies. The woman's body, while making love, gave out a huge surge of energy, which I felt come into me. She pleaded with me not to go back to Chicago. The next day I arrived back in Chicago, and picked up my friend. His girlfriend had a bad dream of a black cat and she pleaded with us not to go on my motorcycle. We pulled out, there was a black cat looking at us, and it crossed out path. This happened three more times. 

Then hours later 'boom', we were hit head-on by an intoxicated driver with no insurance. He turned into us traveling 50 mph as we were also traveling 50+ mph. My friend was thrown off the back. I stayed on the bike.  Both of my legs got crushed until both femurs broke, as the motorcycle went down. I went up over the hood, into windshield then rolled in the gravel along the side of the road. I crawled to find my friend, worried he was dead, and kept holding on to him. 

One hospital was within a mile and my friend went there.  He ended up living in body cast for 6 or 7 months. I, on other hand, was shipped-off to a trauma center.

The next day, I knew it was 'time,' having dreamt of this day since I was a little boy.  I don't know why I lived so wildly, even though I had an educated family.  As nurses and doctors franticly ran around me, I left my body, said good-bye, and left the hospital.  There was a white light. But like a strong magnet, I was pulled up to the light as it got bigger.  Then stars and lights surrounded me.  The sounds, smells, and the sights where amazing, like trying to explain what a banana tastes like to someone who had never eaten one.  

I was knocking on the gates of heaven, only I could not get in.  A spirit told me that it was not my time because I had to do beautiful things and help mankind and nature.  I argued with that energy and told him/her/it that my body was mangled.  How am I going to do anything with such a damaged body? I was told how, but not in English, nor Hungarian or German, but by thoughts projected into my spirit. That is when I knew there was more to me.  I had a communication device that I did not need to speak in order to use it. I felt like Ralphy in ‘Christmas story’ when he told Santa that he wanted a BB gun as he's pushed by Santa's foot and goes sliding down the slide.

I felt, and still feel, like that little boy.  All my evil ways died. I became different, as if my soul was in a white coat! Then reality set back in as I floated above the hospital. I watched nurses and doctors running around me, the electric crash cart came out and then I saw my body shake up and down. 

Next, my eyes opened looking up and I could feel great pain.  At the time, I couldn't explain why I could draw the scene later from a bird's eye view.  For several years, I tried hiding from this truth because people looked at me as if I was crazy if I mentioned it. I drank and did drugs while trying to live a better life.  One day, I realized that I was holding myself back. I have fallen into everyone's way of living and how I should be.  This was the catalyst of my 180 degree turn and now I help man, birds, and even earthworms. I speak to people who lost loved ones, tell them my story, how their loved ones have just passed over, and are not dead like they think. TAOISM writes about this as does Hindu and even the Bible of life after. The older I get the stronger the energy inside of me gets. I can write more and more and more as it was the greatest gift I ever received.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aug. 2 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart stopped (flat lined) and I know what I saw, heard and felt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It's wild as I look upon it; every moment gets a high level alertness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It's wild as I look upon it; every moment gets a high level alertness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Day versus night.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sounds where like what does gold sound like?

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was not a dark tunnel but more 'open' and the light that got bigger and became stars surrounding me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I dislike the word unearthly.  Earth has a spirit too, so this is wrong to say unearthly.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood what I had to do on earth.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I stopped them.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   became TAOIST at the time & still practice

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   TAOIST & EVEN SOME HINDU & BUDDHIST as they all tie together

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to be in the dark, now I'm in the light.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     yes universal connection does exist

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     GOD is diffent not what the word means to most others not a guy in robe w/letter G on it

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I'm tired of writing right now.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     we ALL NEED TO DO GOOD WE ARE STEWARDS of PLANET EARTH & we are allowing her to die do to greed!

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     that is kind of strange as that was just kind of  conveyed

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     HELP MOTHER EARTH

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     GREED IS BAD WE MUST HELP EARTH

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LOVE ONESELF

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many used tell me that I was crazy but after 30 years it's hard to argue that fact.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francis_g_nde.html