{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francis_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Francis A NDE 8068","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francis A NDE 8068  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francis A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4199 Francis A NDE 8068  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 26 years old and highly stressed at calling off the wedding, which was a month away.  On June 26, 1992 after work, I went to my mother's house for dinner.  I had a seizure of some kind and went unconscious for a few minutes. 
 
 I observed my body lying on the floor and saw many people trying to awaken me.  I saw people throwing buckets of water on top of my body while trying to stop my convulsions.  They tried to adjust me by dragging my body while trying to get me on my feet.  I lost control of my bowels while on the floor.   My father brought me to the emergency room.  I saw my body going into the emergency room while a doctor placed something into my arm.  I WAS HOVERING AND HAPPY.  I WAS FOLLOWING MY BODY AND WAS FINE.  I HAD NO PAINS.  I WAS CONTENTED, DETACHED FROM MY BODY, AND DID NOT WANT TO COME BACK. But fate wanted me to come back.  Suddenly, like ebbing, whirling water and sounds, I was drawn back by my body.  I was back and strong pains begun everywhere. I started feeling sick and since then to this date, I have become an epileptic patient.  Yet I only remember this one seizure.  This was the only time I had this beautiful sensation and I have never wanted to think about it again today. I remember it perfectly and I tell it now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  26/06/1992
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Other: convulsioni del gran male con perdita di urine e feci  Convulsions great pain with loss of bowel control. I was engaged to a girl whom my family had many fears about my future, but I was in love.  I couldn't get rid of that love story.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw everything.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was agitated for the failure of my upcoming marriage

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time my experience out of my body lasted

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     About four meters above my body, I was happy, tranquil, calm, and in total wellness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing, I could not hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt wellness and as if I wanted to interject to say, ΓÇÿdon't worry I am fine'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   nessuna

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   credo

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I would have never imagined or thought a life different from the real one, until then and until today.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I let GOD take care of that

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     non lo so ho dei dubbi

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I believe so

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Confusion

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I am certain that after death we live on.  Now I tell another occurrence. I was 6 years old and woke up from a dream.  I told my mother that I dreamed of my grandmother falling down the stairs and a fire in her house.  My maternal grandmother was 90km away, around 10am a phone call came from relatives informing us of what happened.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Confusion

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am no longer interested in anything.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events a

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was of no use anymore, so I didn't think of it because I was despondent about my relationship.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real; a good, excellent experience that I am sorry I cannot have it again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't remember, but I think there may have been other things.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to go back and find, again, my lost interests.  Or anyhow to go back and no longer suffer being alone.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francis_a_nde.html