{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francine_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Francine M NDE 6656","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francine M NDE 6656  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francine M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3309 Francine M NDE 6656  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was under anesthesia during the birth of my second child. All of a sudden, I found myself hovering at ceiling level and viewing the scene under me but I really wasn't very much interested in what was happening down there! I remember mentally nudging myself to 'pay attention to what's going on' but then I found myself floating in a nebula of extreme beauty. I was immersed in the depths of the sky, or 'heaven' and I felt a 'presence' but did not try to see it.

Immediately I understood the whole universe—and for me, understanding all those scientific things, (never having been good at math and science in school) it was like a rejuvenating fountain!  Furthermore, I had gone through much suffering during my youth—and now I was able to understand why.

And then, quite simply, I woke up in the post-operative recovery room. I was completely certain of everything and wanted to tell my doctor all about it as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, he advised me to forget it, if I did not want to wind up in the madhouse [mental hospital].

So after that, I kept it a secret.  Right now I can't find words strong enough to explain how much this experience changed me, but I can state strongly that I have never had any doubts that I lived through every second of it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  17 Février 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  While under general anesthesia.    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Aucune idées le médecins ma regardait bizarrement quand spontanément il m'a dit de me taire que c'était une hallucination qui pouvait me mener chez les fous!  There are always risks with any anesthesia!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   E=mc2 — that was nursery school information up there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At every moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Straight on and in full center.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing; it was silent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and freedom.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   Je vivais une vibrante révolte intérieures contre la religion et la totale incompréhension sur mon malheur depuis l'enfance...pensionnat, foyers nourriciers et centre de transit

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have my own religion within.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have faith.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I understood through telepathy.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Je suis depuis toujours et je fais partie d'un tout indissociable

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     La religion c'est de la magie ...la foi est plus puissante

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Cela ne être sans  Dieu

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Grandir comprendre aimer rire jouer ..... pas pour soi mais pour l'autre dans un élan d'amour

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Du plus grand au plus petit tout vie rien ne meurt même pas une fleur

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Sans amour tout meurt

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I felt myself under protection and I still do now.  There have been large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Everything was hard, with all the emotions, the feelings, and all that science of the beyond. I can hardly explain anything, except for the great significance of souls.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance, intuition, premonitions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that for me the veil suddenly lifted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Until I read the works of the Dr. Raymond Moody, I never felt the desire to be believed, so people's reactions did not affect me. To understand why they were not able to believe me, I just had to put myself in their place.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was liberating, because it allowed me to make peace with my past.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can hardly wait to go back. I am sixty now and I never worried about instructing myself.  I feel like I have my bags packed and I am waiting.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it's okay.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francine_m_nde.html