{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francine_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Francine B NDE 7892","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francine B NDE 7892  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francine B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4088 Francine B NDE 7892  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a bad place in my life.  The boy that I loved broke up with me. So I was hanging out with some friends taking acid. I dropped three hits and was very high. My friends thought I was too high so they gave me some downers that made me too down.  So they gave me some uppers, and then I was again too high.  So they tried to inject me with another drug.  I fought hard not to let them inject me and I bit one of them. Resulting in my friends taking me out of the house and putting me in my car. They were going to drive me to the hospital with another friend following in her car. I tried to jump out of the car because I was hearing voices telling me to jump. My friends left me there.  They abandoned me in the street at a busy intersection.

The police soon picked me up and took me to a police station. I had fought them hard and they had hog-tied me. The officers carried me into the station.  I remember the Sergeant said they were crazy bringing me there, because I was not breathing right.  He didn't want me to die at the jail. I don't remember anything after that except when at the hospital.

The hospital staff were trying to wake me up, but I couldn't do so.  They had my ID and were saying my name. A guy in the next room heard them say my name. He had been injured in a motorcycle accident that night and he knew me. He told them who my father was, where my parents lived, and their phone number. 

At this point, I was floating above the scene and watching them try to revive me.  Suddenly, I was surrounded by these horrible creatures that I call 'dark angels.' They were speaking in a rhyme saying 'Out of the light and into the darkness . . . '  The rest of the rhyme I don't remember. They tore at me and it was painful, ripping me to pieces until I was nothing. We were literally flying down the halls of the hospital and out the roof.

Next, I was in a Hell and was flat on my back with bars pressing down on me.  I could hear the cries of other souls and their anguish. An evil presence questioned me for what seemed like an eternity. It wanted to know what I believed spiritually and who I worshipped.  I was very afraid a first but became defiant and challenged their right to keep me. I told them I did believe in Jesus and I didn't think he would hurt me. Then I was suddenly out of hell. 

The next thing that happened was an in-depth review of my life. The Beings that were with me, showed me in detail each mistake I had made in my life. This review was so detailed that even inappropriate looks were pointed out. I was shown how my behavior hurt others and it was my responsibility to curtail my responses and love others more fully. 

Next I was in the womb of a woman.  It was very peaceful until I was born.  I was reminded of the evil of the world when the doctor who delivered me thought, 'Here's another little whore.' I could hear it and was so sad. After that, I lived lives, died, and was reborn thousands of times. This eternity was pure hell, I just wanted it to stop.  

Then I woke up in a room.  I was tied down and my father was there praying. I couldn't believe I was out of the Hell. I told only the doctor who cared for me what happened. He said he had heard of similar experiences.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Self-inflicted drug overdose. Not intended to result in death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More vivid, clear thinking, I was very aware, and alert. My brain was super smart and fast.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the Hell

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed like forever.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brighter, the pain was deep and intense.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was clear and precise.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was hot and smelled very bad; lots of loud noises and souls in torment. It was very dark.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fear, defiance, and pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     Many events. One I remember was the way I treated a girl at school. I had been mean to her.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Brought up in non denominational Christian church (Church of Christ)  At the time I was in a Metaphysics School.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Studied Buddhism, Taoist, and other Asian Religions

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered several different 'beings'. The 'dark angels' had claws and could cause physical pain. The keeper/questioner in hell tried to frighten me, at first.  But after a while, I felt I could defeat them. When I was returned, a soft Being, who said nothing, sent me back to earth.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     only that we cycle life after life

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Yes     The burning is to help you leave your past life and continue.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That we suffer and cause others to suffer.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Surround others in love and be kind.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francine_b_nde.html