{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francesco_i_nde.html","mytitle":"Francesco I NDE 3828","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francesco I NDE 3828  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francesco I NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1804 Francesco I NDE 3828  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My NDE happened on a blustery summer day. The ocean was rough. In my ignorance, I believed that one could still take dangerous risks in life. I naively wanted to ride the rough waves, while at the same time I attempted to dodge the worst and biggest of the waves. I got to the water's edge. My friends were calling to me, telling me not to go that way since it was so dangerous.  I was determined and wanted to ride those waves! That is what I was doing. Then I realized how bad the situation was when the force of the ocean dragged me out. Suddenly, I was outside of my body and I saw myself under water surrounded by dead alg' and at the mercy of the ocean currents. I saw very well what was happening when my vision was turned upside down. Now my image was changed and narrowed so that I could see myself in an egg with my head down in the fetal position. I came back to life.  The wave that had brought me back to shore had also hurled me near my companions.

When they looked to the sea they saw me and my friend with his eyes bugging out of his head yelled at me, 'Where have you been all this time!?' I didn't have an answer for him. One thing I know is that this experience changed my life forever. The incredible thing is that after this experience I had seven nightmares, which influenced my life. Five of them have come true, only two are left; it's just a matter of time for those two to manifest.

P.S. At fifty-one I had another NDE but I don't want to report that one on the computer because it's too complicated.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10071954

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I wouldn't know I was just a kid.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I wouldn't know I was just a kid.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       What a seven year old would feel, he doesn't know what he's doing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   nessuna troppo piccolo per comprendere

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Never.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   non ho mai avuto bisogno di credere perche´sono stato sempre consapevole che la vita va prima compresa e poi capita per arrivare alla sua conoscenza

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Never.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes A LOT MORE understanding towards others, more human and more aware of the sciences.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I discovered the mind, intuition and sensitivity.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that my answers are 'no' to a majority of the questions is because my experience was cut short but what occurred during my second NDE is not paranormal but instead science fiction.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only fifty years later.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't understand the question but I see it as a sign of awareness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's enough to make your head spin because it gave me the knowledge on how to use one's mind so as to make SENSATIONAL discoveries.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Electromagnetism.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not in this section.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       WHERE is the mind during the NDE? Only the mind can answer all the questions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francesco_i_nde.html