{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francisco_d_ndes.html","mytitle":"4312 Francisco D NDEs 8241","mylang":"de"}
          	        4312 Francisco D NDEs 8241  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francisco D NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  						4312 Francisco D NDEs 8241  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During my infancy, I suffered frequently from asthma attacks. The first out of body experience that I had was when I had a clear memory of what happened one night.  I felt an extreme suffocation up to the point where I couldn't articulate the words to ask for help from my family. After some anxious moments that seemed to take forever, suddenly I was free of all suffering. I remember thinking 'Now I can breathe' but then I looked down and I realized my body was still lying on the bed. I heard terrible sounds coming from my body. They were trying to give oxygen in vain.  I realized that I didn't have to breathe to stay conscious. I had become a type of semi-transparent light, free of the breathing equipment or body. I looked at my brother sleeping by my side, without knowing what had happened.  I went to my parents house. I remember that I wanted to move and immediately I was at his side, without any break in sequence. I thought something like “Marvelous!” and I started to play. I was  six years old at the time. I moved to all parts of the house. At that point, there appeared two balls of light. One said to me  in a very serious voice,  what  was I doing there and that I should now return to my body, or I would never again be able to do so,  Just at that moment, I was carried through a luminous tunnel. Once more I was in my bed and  in my own body. The asthma attack was over.
  				    
  Much later I again had a similar experience, but this time there were many more beings of light in the room. They talked to me with familiarity, as if they had known me all of my life.  I had no idea who they were. One of them said 'You should stay with us and stop suffering so', but another replied 'He has much to live through and he is going to be so happy.' Then they became two balls of light, and everyone present maintained a respectful silence, as you would before a respected figure of authority.  Meanwhile, I was carried once more through a narrow tunnel at great speed to my body.
  
  From that moment, in dreams I was able to speak with these entities of light in my room.  They spoke to me with familiarity.  They have guided and advised me at various important stages of my life. I know that this sounds absurd and like a mental health problem, but it is as if through these out of body experiences my mind has ended up half way between both worlds. If I believe this 'mental illness' myself, it is through the precision with which everything that has been related to me has always come true.  Much later, during my adolescence, I had these types of encounters with people that had just died.  I will always remember the anguish of a nurse, that had attended me the previous week and that had had a fatal accident and that when in an advanced state of pregnancy, went to her place of work. She told me that she had had an accident and that if the assistants were quick, the baby could yet be saved.  But I didn't know where the accident had happened and I couldn't do anything. The very next day they confirmed her death, and ever since I had been left with that feeling of helplessness of not being able to do anything for her.

  On another occasion, my grandmother, recently dead, gave me precise instructions to pick up my grandfather at his house, he was now ill, and needed help. She said to me,  'Go where the pink shark is', something that held no meaning at that time for me. At that moment I heard the phone ring, and a neighbor of my grandfather told us how ill he was, so my mother gave me the keys to the car, and sent me to get him. The usual road was closed, due to a storm, that had strewn trees in the way, and the operatives that were there told me that the other route that I could take was blocked as well. It occurred to me to take a small forest trail I would be able to get through the fallen trees. On arriving at the entrance to the said route, THERE HAD BEEN A  CITROËN DS TIBURÓN PINK IN COLOUR PARKED THERE. I froze, but at the same time I knew that if I went on this road there I would get there without problems, as indeed it transpired.

  I have had many such experiences of this type, and at the level of detail of these premonitions it has made me sure it is not a mental disorder of any type. I would rather like it to be interpreted as definitive proof that somehow, we survive death. It is possible that a collective consciousness to which we have access with ease, and that others relate to me in this way so that their understanding is simpler. Be that as it may, (survival of the mind outside of the body or the collective consciousness) I believe that the reality is more complex than the modern scientific paradigms can encompass. And that fresh and vigorous research is necessary in respect of that which should help us through this frontier of knowledge. In this respect, I think you have to in the first place distinguish the experiences in which there is no scientific evidence of clinical death, like mine, that are not of great scientific interest. They can now be interpreted as hallucinations through Cerebral Hypoxia, and for those others, in which there is clinical death, like those of the subjects who had NDEs and who had at least 1 minute without EEG activity and no heart activity. These types of experiences are those which make science reflect on the current concepts of consciousness and mind, and the fact that there seems to be some sort of conscious activity in brains that there shouldn't be according to current paradigms. The fact that people blind from birth are able to vividly remember colors through their NDEs, of this type are also very significant that there is something that is eluding us. Like that in respect of mine, that happens in most cases of people that have experienced an NDE, although I understand that for science that they would not value my experience, yes it helps me on a personal level to not have any fear of death and to be able to face it with total serenity and confidence.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   An acute asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience one has a level of  alert and expanded consciousness compared to normal.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wouldn't know how to say.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wouldn't know how to say.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through it on my return to my body.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     They were very familiar with me, as if they knew me, although I (at the age of six) had never met them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and freedom. My anxiety at not being able to breathe ended suddenly.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I stopped being a practising catholic when I was of an age free from the supervision of my family (they are Catholics)

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was a child of six years, for whom the feeling of reality which one has at that age is always a bit distorted and immature, indeed the prefrontal lobe is not yet sufficiently developed.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Types of luminous semi-transparent balls.  In fact I was one of them.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     During later telepathic experiences in dreams with those two entities attended me, occasionally they let me have access to memories of those which they said were previous lives, that I had lived. I have no way of knowing if this really happened or they are memories induced by them, although they feel like they are mine. I have decided to discard them, and not think any more about them, because I feel that they would  move me away from my concrete reality, and that I should stick to this life. I don't think it is mentally healthy to take them into account and I consider them a type too infantile to be irrefutable proof of a previous existence.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I became reserved and shy, at that time I couldn't tell anyone about my experience and everything else that happened in my life, for fear that they might think I was crazy. In fact telling everyone now for me is a relief after more than forty years of almost total silence. At the same time I have become a compassionate adult, always tending the needs of others, before my own, and having a high level of honesty and personal integrity that has created many social and professional problems.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It has made me more shy and reserved.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Telepathic contact in dreams with the entities that accompanied me during the experience and with family and friends that had died.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the above.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain.    When I shyly talk about it to others they have always denounced me, or directly taken me as a madman, and due to this nobody knows entirely about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I will always consider it totally real it has helped me not to have any fear of death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     The telepathic contacts that I have had, have always given me so much information on the immediate future that it is not statistically possible that they are the result of coincidence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   telepathic contact during dreams.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  Just to give thanks for letting me release it at last and I would encourage you to continue your excellent work.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Concentrate please, on those experiences in which you can accredit conclusively to clinical death.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francisco_d_ndes.html