{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francesca_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Francesca M NDE 852","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francesca M NDE 852  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francesca M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						336  Francesca M NDE  852  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My daughter had just been born, everything had been very fast. I saw that the physician was giving me a new shot to sew the cut on the vagina that to prevent further tearing. I remember that I told him it was not necessary since anesthesia had just worked for on me for the cut. He didn't listen to me. I felt a big heat rise inside of me, the tongue began to swell and I fell back because it was suffocating me. I didn't see us anymore and the ears whistled.


I said to Mark (a close friend in the operating room), 'I am about to die.'  I know what it feels like to faint, before and after. When one faints, nothing happens before and after. This was different. I was out of body, but I was not afraid.  I felt an infinite peace. It is difficult to describe, because it was not happiness but harmony, peace, a very beautiful feeling. I went fast, projected into this dark space and headed for a clear, bright light. I was projected toward that light that became brighter and brighter. I thought that there was there the Madonna. I was raised to believe and to be devoted to the Virgin Maria. I thought about the child who had just been born. I thought the little girl just born, I saw my child’s face, but I was too good to stay. I knew that if I had reached the light I would not have been able to return anymore.


Then I thought about my husband and I looked at him, then at me, and then I saw the face of my first-born. I understood that I had to stop and to return for her, she needed me. In that moment, I woke up in the birthing room. I saw a coming and going of physicians, the cardiologist, and all shaken ones and at that time I began to be afraid.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    21 gennaio 1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction     cardiac collapse during childbirth, due probably to allergic reaction to an injection of anesthetic; collasso cardiaco durante il parto, dovuto probabilmente a reazione allergica ad un'iniezione per sbaglio in vena di anestetizzanteAccording to the physicians, from the anesthesia there are from 1 to 2 deaths and that I would have been in the norm and not die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      During the NDE, I did not see the faces of my relatives.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Space and time non measurable.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The dark space described above was like a large tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Clear unbagliore but that could be seen with the clear light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Deep peace

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Then I saw the face of my first-born. I understood that I had to stop and to return for her, she needed me. In that moment, I woke up in the birthing room. I saw a coming and going of physicians, the cardiologist, and all shaken ones and at that time I have begun to be afraid.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Difficult to explain with words about the perceptions and the feeling of peace that don't have relationship with our world. It seems to me that the words; reduce the experience because they are unable to correctly express the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       To have tried that state of deep peace that I don't know if I will still succeed in trying here. To know that death is beautiful and is difficult to detach from that knowledge.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Someone has given me some mitomane. I have told him a little. It is not easy

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francesca_m_nde.html