{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1francesca_db_nde.html","mytitle":"Francesca DB NDE 3040","mylang":"de"}
          	        Francesca DB NDE 3040  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Francesca DB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1096  Francesca DB NDE  3040  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Pain and fear of something that was happening inside me. I have never lost the senses after a congestion, I laid on the ground but I have never lost the senses before. I had to make a choice, to stay or to go to see what was there. I saw a hot light while I was bearing in mind about it. I decided to go to see the light. I felt very well, relaxed, a wonder, a light never seen, something that was inside me and that came out of me and it continued telling me 'what a beautiful, what a marvel' that one does not die and ask what are we worried of on the earth if there is continuous life. It is necessary to enjoy laughter and rejoice as in the light. We continued to talk to each other here even though I was in coma. I remembered the light telling me what happened. I was home the day after my next door neighbor found me on the landing. When she found me, I was doing the thought and was becoming the thought. I was in wonderful, very green gardens. I still have feelings of immense joy and the absolute certainty that the life goes on - and when I got back in 'earth' I was not scared. I thought at once that the light was the big mystery called God all here.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    maggio 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     congestione  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .  A congestion and a clear sensation of death and of abandon to the reality of the moment, a full consciousness of everything happened.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Always.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Always.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No time and space in that experience the time doesn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    All perfect, a perfect extreme happiness, amazing landscape.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My friends, and we played a 'ring a ring of roses' wearing white dresses.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Hot, enveloping light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     giardini prati verdi

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      State of total wellbeing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   But I had to come back to the earth in terra because there you have all the answers that you are looking for.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I know how we are into our deep so I never worry again, I really love my life and the people, and I have not selfishness.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   While I was living the experience was a marvel the return to the life on the earth after that experience all has changed and I see everything in a different way.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I accept my life I am more quiet and I am not afraid of death because we don't die, the other persons can feel my positive-ness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    At once but with a negative result, a few persons have not judged me however I never talk about it again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I consider it real because I have really lived it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1francesca_db_nde.html