{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frances_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Frances W NDE 2245","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frances W NDE 2245  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frances W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						641  Frances W NDE  2245  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was above my body and watching everything going on in the room. I could see my father at my bedside crying. I was confused as to why I was lying in the bed and suddenly was in a long tunnel with a small light at the end. I started to race through the tunnel at an amazing speed and the light became stronger and stronger. The feeling as I approached the light was of complete peace and love I cannot describe. I could feel a presence at my side on both sides of me. I knew they were heavenly beings.

As I came into the light, I was filled with an indescribable love and peace. I did not speak with my mouth but telepathically. I was shown my life on earth, the beginning to now, and I was shown the impact I had on others I connected to, I could feel their feelings and experiences in how I treated them. I was filled with total knowledge and understood everything. I entered a beautiful garden, the colors and scenery I could never explain. The colors were surreal. I never wanted to leave this place. The peace was complete; I understood my purpose on this earth.

God spoke to me, but I could not see him, I was stopped, if I went any further, I could not go back to earth. I had a choice to return or stay but I wanted to stay, God wanted me to go back and told me my purpose was not finished on this earth, I would have children. I wanted to do God's will. I told God I wanted to stay but in my heart to do his will was stronger.

I knew I would be back; I entered my body quickly like bang. I was in the hospital. I was told I was tied to the bed, as the convulsions were so bad they had to tie me down. The doctors were amazed I made it. This experience changed me forever. I always had faith. Today I can say absolutely God is real, Jesus is real, and love is all that matters!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June,1989  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Other PARTY AND SOMEONE SPUNKED MY PUNCH WITH THREE HITS OF ACID.  My punch drink was spiked and someone at the dance fed me enough alcohol to kill me by itself. My heart stopped, after the event the doctor said it is a miracle that I am alive today.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Total clarity, no worries, pain, suffering, like lead on earth and a feather in heaven.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was shown the full knowledge, this was taken away from me to a certain extent for me to live here on this earth.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time is different in heaven is as if it does not exist as earth, one minute in heaven could be ten years on earth.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was clear and bright, color does not exist on this planet as it is in heaven.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Telepathically.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Long tunnel, light at end, brighter and brighter, as got closer brilliant light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Angels.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brilliant light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     GARDEN  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, completeness, understanding, and unreal.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Full life here on earth and how I affected others around me, we are all connected as one. My future to some degree.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I was shown all things.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Deeply faithful and live for God every day.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   RELATIONSHIP WITH GOD AND BELIEF IN JESUS CHRIST AND DIED FOR ME ON A CROSS FOR MY SINS.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Deeply faithful and live for God every day.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was filled with complete knowledge.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Love is most important and giving and caring and God is first.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is impossible to express the feelings of love and wonder.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My impact on others in this life, the love and peace, and God is real, death is a beginning, and Jesus died for our sins.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Limited.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I thought it was phony.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wish I could say but you would have to experience it to know.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I experienced.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Dreams.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am more sensitive, I certainly have not had an easy life, I came back and my life has been very challenging. This experience has kept me going and centered. I am very aware of the spiritual realm and its more reality than our life here.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frances_w_nde.html