{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1frances_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Frances H NDE 3757","mylang":"de"}
          	        Frances H NDE 3757  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Frances H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1752 Frances H NDE 3757  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was only approximately seven years old at the time of my near death experience. I don't remember the exact date it happened because I was too young. I was drowning in the ocean. I was caught in a riptide and the waves were taking me down. I was struggling and choking on water. Finally, I gave up the struggle and starting thinking that I was going to die. Then all of I sudden, it was like I 'popped' up and out of my body and my next thought was 'I'm not dead I'm alive, more alive than I had ever felt before!' I did not look back at my body or the beach. I did not travel through a tunnel. 

My spirit went straight to the Light. There were people in the Light. The Light and all the people in it were full of love and understanding. I was in a place where I wanted to stay. I was told many things which remain in my subconscious. At times, I can recall some of the messages I received. When it is appropriate and the time is right, I remember. I know I was told that I had to come back. I think I may have agreed to come back. I know I was told I had a purpose for coming back but I don't recall it but I know I will serve my purpose before I go back to the Light. Due to my young age at the time and my maturity level it would have been overwhelming to have recalled all the details of my experience immediately afterwards.

My return to earth went like this. All of a sudden, I was in the arms of a strange man and he was lifting me out of the ocean. He set me down on the shore of the beach and asked me, 'Are you okay little girl?' and I told him yes. He then walked off and I never saw him again. I believe he was an angel who saved me and brought me back to complete my mission in life as instructed and agreed.

God's will be done.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Near Drowning in the ocean  Other I was rescued before drowning to death in the ocean.  I was drowning in the ocean.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After my spirit left my body and I was in the presence of the Light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time there like we experience here on earth. Too difficult to describe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was no longer using my regular physical bodily senses such as eyesight.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was no longer using my regular physical bodily senses including my hearing.  I was ability to perceive and understand all communication via something that I would compare to telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The memory of my near death experience is vague upon recall but I know the full experience is deeply imbedded in my subconscious. I can only describe what I remember as there being 'People in the Light'.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The Light was God. I have no doubt of that. At the time I was too young to understand exactly what the Light was but I know that it was God.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Light everywhere.  Too difficult to describe in any human language or worldly terms.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Joy and Peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I may have been too young at the time of my near death experience to have a past events review of my life.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Can't recall all the details but they are in my subconscious.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was a small child at the time but was attending Catholic church & school.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was too young at the time of my experience to have any set religious beliefs.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I do not claim 1 religion in particular.  I have respect for all religions of the world.  I am a very spiritual person.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was too young at the time of my experience to have any set religious beliefs.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know many things were revealed to me but because of my young age I was unable to completely recall the experience in detail immediately afterwards. As I grow older and more mature, I am recalling (in my subconscious) more and more of what was revealed to me many years later.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am a very accepting, understanding and forgiving person.  I do not harbor anger or resentments towards people.  I could never be prejudiced.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult to describe the experience in human and worldly terms. The experience was so profound and spiritual that no earthly words can describe it. Also no earthly experiences can compare to it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My friends know me to be somewhat psychic. I am extremely sensitive to the feelings and emotions of people around me. Also I have had prophetic dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience in the presence of the Light was profound.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was many years after my experience before I first shared it with others. My daughter is the most fascinated with my experience. She believes that she met me in the light and that I had to come back in order to give birth to her.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My near death experience was more real than anything I had ever experienced in my life previously.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My near death experience is and always will be the most important and meaningful experience in my life. It completely shaped the type of person I am today.   I know for a fact that there is life after the physical body dies.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My dreams, while sleeping at night.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       God is the Light and there is life after death. It is in dying that we are born again.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any right now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1frances_h_nde.html