{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1forbes_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Forbes G NDE 4105","mylang":"de"}
          	        Forbes G NDE 4105  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Forbes G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1979 Forbes G NDE 4105  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While working at a local service station I had repaired a large split rim truck tire, and it had been laying on the floor of the shop for several hours. I noticed the owner of the tire drive up, and decided to check the air to see if it was 90 psi. I sat down on the tire, took the presser reading, and at that point my world was torn apart. The split rim tire exploded, and I was thrown across the shop, and crashed head first into a toolbox.

The first clear memory after the feeling of flight was lying on the floor of the shop looking up at my fellow workers. After a few minutes, I put together the event in my mind, and realized what had happened. My first thought was that I was dead, I did not know how long it would take, but I knew I was dead. I remember thinking, well, okay, so be it, and I accepted the concept that all was over. At one point, my boss was kneeling next to me, and I told him to go get my wife, try not to scare her, things will work out. It took several minutes for the ambulance to arrive.

During that time, I began to take inventory of the damage done to me. I do not know why I did such a thing, but I did. By the time the ambulance arrived, I had decided that I may not be dying after all.  I told the ambulance personnel everything I had decided was wrong with me. They got me into the ambulance, and away we went. I found out later that the tire had broken thirteen bones in my body from my left hip, which was sitting on the tire, to several bones in my left hand, arm, and ribs on my left side as the rim was blasted past me. The ambulance ride was unbelievable. Every bump, every turn, every touch of the brakes sent waves of pain through me. The siren was sounding the attendant was talking to me trying to get information. As the ambulance made the last turn toward the hospital I felt very tired, a wave washed over me, I had never been so tired in my life, and I closed my eyes.

Suddenly the pain was gone, the siren was gone, and the bumpy ride was gone.  I was in a place that I am unable to describe. I was in a place of calm, warm, quiet, pleasant place and the most wonderful feeling of peace, love, and contentment. I was reveling in it, lost in it, and suddenly I heard a voice in the back of my head say, 'Open your eyes.' I was in this wonderful place, and this voice had the gall to try to interrupt me. I thought the word, 'What?', and was irritated at the voice. I again heard the voice, but in louder, stronger tone, 'OPEN YOUR EYES!' Half angry and half scared of the voice, I did open my eyes, and the real world crashed down on me. Everything was back, the pain, and all that was around me became alive and real again. I looked up and found the attendant that had been talking to me earlier was now sitting on my hips, and was preparing to start CPR on me. I looked into his face, his eyes were wide, mouth open, and he said, 'Your back!'

The rest of the story is pretty mundane as the medical people did what they could to keep me alive, and of course it worked. Some months later, I talked to the attendant that was with me in the ambulance. We talked about the incident at great length. I found out that he had been employed by the ambulance district for very short time when I was injured, and that it had been his first bad trauma case. He told me that my heart had stopped for about three or four minutes, (his guess), with the number of injuries I had he had been talking to the hospital staff doctor about whether or not he should do CPR, and possibly do more damage to my rib cage. When he got the clearance, he was about to start CPR when I opened my eyes. I asked him if he talked to me during the time that I was dead.  He said 'no' he had been talking to the hospital doctor during that time. I still do not know who was talking to me. I know that there is a duality in humans that no one can fully explain. When we ask our self what should I do? Who are we talking to? The Christian would say Jesus saved me, others would say the will of Allah, and so on. The only thing that I know is the place where I went was the most wonderful place I had ever been, and I am not scared to go there again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 29, 1976'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Massive trauma, thirteen bones broken, internal bleeding, head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was reveling in the greatness of the place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was reveling in the greatness of the place.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear nothing around me, but heard perfectly the voice in my head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, calm, warmth, serenity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Have a belief of something beyond life, do not subscribe to organized religion.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I had always been more or less against or not a devout member of any organized religion.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Have a belief of something beyond life, do not subscribe to organized religion.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I had always been more or less against or not a devout member of any organized religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I have found that I have less tolerance with the devout members of any organized religion.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     With acceptance, calmly.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was what it was, and I have accepted that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1forbes_g_nde.html