{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1florenti_nde.html","mytitle":"Florenti NDE 4056","mylang":"de"}
          	        Florenti NDE 4056  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Florenti NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1971 Florenti NDE 4056  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We were looking after a Doberman for one of my father's friends. Knowing he was very aggressive, my father had him tethered in the yard, but the dog managed to chew through his leash. My father was on the first floor in the house and I was in the kitchen. The dog noiselessly came into the house and stopped in front of me. I was squatting and the dog pushed his head hard against my shoulder, knocking me off-balance.  He then attacked me, going for my neck and face.

Instantly, I did not feel my body anymore. I was like a puppet being shook by this dog.  I did not feel any pain. I knew he was much stronger than I was, so I did not try to escape.  I knew I was about to die.

With all my might, I called my father for help.  I saw that no sound got out of my mouth and my lips hardly moved.

Then I felt as if I were standing.  I saw my body was lying behind me.  Next, I was in total darkness and in a tunnel. I started to float forward but did not touch the ground.  I moved faster and faster, almost lying on my belly until I reached a fantastic acceleration, similar to a rocket.  I reached the light that was at the end of this long tunnel. I moved through forms, or I averted them. I passed by sorts of rectangles, triangles (I don't exactly know what it was). I was not scared.  In fact, I was very peaceful. At the same time, I thought of my family.  My mother would be sad to know that I was dead when she comes back home tonight.

All of a sudden, everything instantly stopped. I heard my father calling my name; it stopped my forward movement.  I had to turn back, but I didn't want to do so. As I kept hearing him, I decided to listen to him. In a split second, I was back into my body.

I opened my eyes and told him I was all right. He had been by my side for some time, alerted by the growling dog and low noises (he heard my body rattle in all senses against the walls). He got down running and had to get me off the dog's fangs. He said he saw me muttering something after having remained unconscious for at least five minutes, the time needed to call for help.

As soon as I came back to consciousness, I got up and told him there was no need to bring me to the hospital. It was hard for me to understand I was alive, mainly because of the injuries I suffered (thirty-six stitches).

And nobody understood how I had the strength to get up normally only a few minutes after the attack, mainly because of the quantity of blood I lost (cut carotid). I add that I never felt any pain, doctors never understood.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  octobre 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Direct head injury  'Attaquée au cou par un chien, morsures à la carotide(cou)'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I've been alert any time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I've been alert any time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light at tunnel end was magic, objects colors in the tunnel were very deep.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Although in this tunnel I was very far away from my father, I could hear him clearly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, comfort.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance, feelings about people, images about some people spontaneously come to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was years before I shared this experience with some people, they have been very surprised.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubted what I experienced; everything was too powerful to be unreal.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1florenti_nde.html