{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1florence_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Florence O NDE 2765","mylang":"de"}
          	        Florence O NDE 2765  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Florence O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						935  Florence O NDE  2765  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I knew I was dying, seconds before I actually died. My husband was there. I hit the floor and he grabbed me. I looked at him from way above his head; he was holding me and screaming at me. He looked at my body and yelled my name, and then yelled get back here right now. I watched him from way above him and laughed. I thought, 'Does he think that's doing any good? Yelling at me and I'm not in there, I'm in...' and then I realized where I was. I was in a tunnel, going in backwards. I thought to myself, 'please don't let me die like this. Not like this.' It was then I tried to turn around to face the tunnel, but a woman in a yellow dress grabbed my shoulder and my waist and pushed me back into my body. I opened my eyes, and I was looking at my husband. It wasn't until almost a year later, that my Uncle showed me some old photos that he had in a shoe box. One of the photos was of the woman in the yellow dress. She was my grandmother's sister, Maggie. My great-aunt.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Accidental drug interaction.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I have died before, when I was a child. I'm not sure how to answer this question. I did decide to become a psychologist after this though.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       See above.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Husband said I was only dead for about two minutes. I thought I was gone for maybe thirty minutes or so.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I've always seen spirits. My grandmother and my daughter can see them too. I'm not the best at it. My grandmother is the best.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not sure how to answer this question.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw the tunnel, but I only got a little way into it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     She loves me. My grandmother was there too, but it was my aunt Maggie who pushed me back.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A glowing light. Soft. Friendly.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel was beautiful, seemed out of place with the rest of the world.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Laughter. Happiness. Freedom. One part was sad though, when I realized how I would die. I don't mind dying, but I didn't want to die like that. It was important that I not bring shame to my family.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I've changed my life around. I don't like hanging around with people who don't have it together anymore.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I was born with intuitions. My whole family is.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting Aunt Maggie, knowing that my grandmother and my family will be there when I'm really ready. Also, that I had to straighten my life up and make my family proud so I can join them with pride.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband first. Then I talked to some elders about it. This isn't something that I felt comfortable discussing with everyone though. Only with people who could help me understand it, or had experiences similar to it. Indians are more open to these things, so I talked mostly to us.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I've died before, when I was a child.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it the same.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's real. It's as real as I'm sitting here right now.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm not afraid of death.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1florence_o_nde.html