{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1flora_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Flora S NDE 3329","mylang":"de"}
          	        Flora S NDE 3329  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Flora S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1202 Flora S NDE 3329  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was on medical leave from work and just had my third knee surgery because of an infection. As I was out of work for a long period of time, I was on medication for depression that I stopped taking because I ran out. Fourteen days later, I decided that life was not worth living and decided to swallow pills. I ended up in the emergency room. They started an IV, called poison control, and they were told to give me an antidote and monitor me. I don't remember anything that evening. I then was taken to the critical care unit where I was in kidney and liver failure and they told my love ones that I might not make it through the night. I stopped breathing and coded. They were trying to tube me, I aspirated and now had fluid in my lungs, and as time went on, I had a fever of 104. 

I don't remember anything except a man standing next to my bed leaning against the wall with his arms folded and he showed no emotion just stared at me. I now know he was sent to watch over me.

Then the next thing I know was I was standing by a gate with other spirits and looking at my hands and arms realizing I too was in spirit form. We did not speak to one another we just waited and it was so bright and blinding but it did not hurt my eyes. I knew if I went through the gate, everything would be final and there would be no turning back. I then heard a voice of a female in my head telling me I must return that it was not my time. I then woke up on life support and the doctors telling me to take a deep breath so they could remove the tube. I couldn't take a deep enough breath and they were struggling to pull the tube out, so they placed me in a drug induced coma and restrained my arms. I was like that for two days.

I then was taken out of the coma and they were able to remove the breathing tube. There was a male nurse sitting next to me and he asked me if I could speak. I whispered yes and he then asked me what I remembered. I told him I was aware that I was dead and told him everything that had happened.  He told me I was dead and they couldn't get the tube down my airway, I suffer from sleep apnea so it was a struggle and then I coded. Every doctor that came in and saw me in intensive care said I should have died and they didn't understand how I made it. After fourteen days of intensive care, I was able to go home.

I can only say when I was dead the feeling was wonderful, unexplainable, and the love I felt was unconditional. I walked away without any brain damage or any ill effects. As strange as this may sound it was the best thing that could of happen to me.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    06/10/07

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Overdose.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was dead.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was dead.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was standing and waiting for a long period of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything had so much more clarity.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Communication was done with the mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There were other spirits all around me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   All of my surroundings were very blinding but did not hurt my eyes and there was a mist all around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     dimension I know I was not in our place called earth

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Overwhelming peace and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I knew it would be final if I crossed through the gate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I have become very spiritual and know there is a higher power.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have become very spiritual and know there is a higher power.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is no hell that hell is within us as we create it, that we are all here to love everyone unconditionally and not to judge anyone for mistakes they have made. As humans we are here to live life to the fullest and live in harmony.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  My husband keeps telling me that I can read his mind. I sometime sense what others are thinking I sometimes know who's calling me before I look at my caller ID and I have become very intuitive.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Much more intuitive and more connected to others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All of it. I now do not fear death and I feel I was given a second chance for a reason. I feel I am on some kind of a mission that I must fulfill.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told everyone as soon as I was able to speak, most embrace it some don't know what to think.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Heard about it, I did work in nursing in long-term care and have helped others experience death and knew there was more to it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I just know it was not a dream because of the feeling I felt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I am now very sensitive to medications and skin change.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1flora_s_nde.html