{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1flora_o_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Flora O Possible NDE 7452","mylang":"de"}
          	        Flora O Possible NDE 7452  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Flora O Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3795 Flora O Possible NDE 7452  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in a dark depression for about a year and was preparing to commit suicide. I was tired of running away from my childhood and the damage that literally tore my soul apart.  It is difficult to live on such a negative planet and I am a sensitive spirit.

To make a long story short, I had made my final decision to leave and I was at peace with my decision.  From my perspective, at this life changing time, I was saving my children from myself.  My anger was eating me alive and my children had to live in my hell as well. 

The moment before I lost consciousness, I said/thought, to myself, ‘I am doing this to keep them safe.’ I left my body spontaneously. I went. I FLEW! Upon leaving my body, I shot through the Universe.  I did not see a tunnel.  I saw stars and galaxies while flying at what felt like the speed of light as I went towards the light. I did this each time this happened: four in total.  When I reached the light, Time changed.  I could not tell from the moment of leaving how long each of these experiences lasted, because there was no time. People refer to this as Heaven but when I arrived, I knew instantly that I was Home!  It isn't a place; it's a vibration of Unconditional Love. There is NO Earthly terms to describe the Ecstasy felt upon arriving.  

It's all Love! A spirit, who was cloaked in a burlap tunic with a large hood covering his face, met me.  He was an ethereal form.  We communicated by thought and feeling; there were no words.  He led me to a healing room where other spirits were dressed the same way. As I lay down to be worked on, my soul was being infused with Love.  Part of me went to a River that I ‘knew’ was the River of Life. It was beyond magical. I have always wanted to write a book called ‘The Color of Music’ because that is what this river was. Flowing Music that was every color on Earth and a lot more colors we can't see here, because of Earth’s density.  I was hearing the Music of the Spheres during this whole time.  It sings Love.  It's Angelic and beyond description.  

I was One with Everything and it was One with Me.  Remembrance was flowing through my spirit body as my soul revival continued.  I stepped into the River and became the Colors and the Music.  I was filled with such Joy and Love, which had this happened on Earth, my physical body would not have been able to stand the electrical charge.  The energy revival was overwhelming. That is why there is no time.  So much is happening at once that I could only feel the experience. 

As I started to leave I was given messages that were ringing loudly in music form, Singing from the Universe is the only way I can describe it.  It was like, ‘Love is The Answer’ and ‘We are All Great and Powerful Souls who showed Great Courage in coming to Earth to help.  Remember!’ The Knowledge I remembered has been difficult to keep to myself.  

This was 17 years ago.  My loving family deemed me a crazy person to ensure that I would never be believed about my childhood memories.  The ‘New Age’ movement was at an early stage and I rarely encountered another person who had had a similar experience.  Believe me, I searched and have searched since.  This year I finally found my affirmation in a book called ‘The Afterlife of Billy Fingers’.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Planning suicide.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was One with Everything.  LOVE was everywhere.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At All times: Communication by thought

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is NO time here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wear glasses, my vision on earth is very poor there was no need for glasses in this vibration.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the Music of the Spheres, Angels singing: I was one with everything I heard.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I shot out of my body through celestial stars towards incredible light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a healing room and at the same time by The River of Life.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy, Joy, Love, Remembrance of my true Home, Peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I remembered everything I knew before I came to Earth, with the exception of past lives.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual but not religious

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More Profound

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual but not religious

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had given up on my life, felt I had No purpose Remembering my true Home & the Love awaiting me

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am looking forward to leaving the Earth Plane and going home! I could change my life every day.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was met by a spirit who was cloaked and later others who were cloaked as well.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     My returning memory of my TRUE Home

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It is a feeling not describable in Earth terms

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I KNEW that I was ONE with Our Source

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not Special Knowledge: just remembering my/our greatness

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     LOVE is The Answer

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw, felt & remembered it.  I was given messages for others... LOVE is the Only Answer We are great & powerful, courageous beings

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Our lives here are a choice...Free Will Reigns

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     LOVE is the answer

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LOVE is the Answer

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. All of my senses are very acute. I am able to read other’s emotions and lives.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I broke a chain of abuse. My children and grandchildren are thriving.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no ‘earthly’ words to describe the beauty, joy, colors, vibrancy or the connectedness.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairaudience, Empathic, Knowing

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Unconditional Love, The Music of the Spheres, Our Connectedness

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first I did not: people would have thought I was crazy. Now I do especially when someone is concerned about a deceased relative or grieving or if I see articles on Face Book questioning the Afterlife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I went to the Healing room three more times after this experience. I had NO Doubt, too much had happened and my energy after the healing room was blowing out electrical sockets.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know too much. It’s hard to live on this plane of negativity.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have visited the Akashic Records.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Believe!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1flora_o_possible_nde.html