{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1flora_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Flora A NDE 4681  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE from falling.  Her grandmother was alive and in the hospital at the time of her NDE, but died shortly thereafter.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Flora A NDE 4681  		  		  		  		  		NDE from falling.  Her grandmother was alive and in the hospital at the time of her NDE, but died shortly thereafter.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Flora A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2370 Flora A NDE 4681  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fell and hit my head. I moved through a tunnel with concentric rings. The tunnel became two tunnels and my sister was moving with me in the second tunnel, a little behind me, until she fell back and her tunnel disappeared. I moved on. Flashes of colored light appeared as I moved through the tunnel.

There was wonderful music. I moved toward a light, which was dull at first and then became larger and brighter. Some individuals in brown robes with hoods met me. I am not aware of knowing them. We had a lot of conversation that I have never been able to remember. I saw my grandmother standing off to the side and there was some conversation, which again I cannot recall (at this time my grandmother was in the hospital, still alive). I could see past the hooded figures to a meadow. I wanted to keep going and enter the meadow but the figures would not allow it. I then became aware and felt like I had gravel in my mouth. My dog was barking loudly in my ears, running from one ear to the other, and was licking my face all over. I spit out the ‘gravel’, which was broken teeth. My dog ran to the doors barking and tried to open them, even clawing down the curtains on the glass sliding doors. After a while, I realized that I was on the floor and that a glass topped table was lying beside me, broken. I was then aware of the pain and the fact that I had passed out and fallen on the hard terrazzo tiles. I called for help. 

My grandmother died a short time after my fall. I don't now remember how many days later. 

For about three months after the accident, I was not all here, but was not aware of it until an experience with a robed individual like the ones I had seen at the end of the tunnel. I was walking down a street in San Francisco and had an urge to walk into a large church. The church was empty and dark and then the figure just appeared up at the front of the church, at the podium.

Again, there was some kind of conversation that I have never been able to recall. When I walked outside the world was different. Everything was louder and faster, and the colors were all more subdued. I realized that up to that point I just wasn't all the way here.

My entire life changed. Nothing has ever been the same again. The path I was moving along just changed into another path.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1969
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Other fall

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Moving through the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is very difficult to describe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had a more intense, greater field of vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have not heard sounds here like I heard there.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Described in main narrative.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Described in main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Described in main narrative.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place beyond the figures was beautiful to me, but I was not permitted to go there.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement, joy and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     When I became aware and conscious I just knew that my grandmother would die.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The robed figures stood at the boundary. I longed to move past them and into the meadow that I could see.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel as if I have moved out of sync. Relationships after the experience definitely changed.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The colors, sound and time elements are difficult to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My life path changed, but I already had some unusual abilities since birth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told the attending physician. He was surprised but appeared to be interested, asking me many questions about the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew something unusual had happened to me. I felt different.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My feeling now is that there was the life before the experience and the life after the experience. I feel now that my timing in this world is off.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The experience never really leaves me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am most interested in the time after a NDE, more specifically the time element and the feeling I have of never being able to put the pieces back together again. I have the feeling that I am living two lifetimes in one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1flora_a_nde.html