{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fiveia_nde.html","mytitle":"Fiveia NDE 7608","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fiveia NDE 7608  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fiveia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3912 Fiveia NDE 7608  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was winter during school holidays. I was home alone. I ate breakfast and having gotten my little brother’s sled, I went off to sled on the ravine.  It was a homemade sled, very heavy, made from metal in the shape of a little chair, with a strong back.  The ravine was what we called the large quarry with little hills.  Here we went sledding in the winter and the three ponds where we sunbathed and swam in the summer. There were already many children on the hill. 

Children would go down the hillside, jump on a trampoline, and then go further down the hill. I had been thinking how nice it would be to jump on the trampoline. But everything ended up differently. I jumped on the trampoline, but fell with my spine on the edge of the back of the sled. I wanted to cry out, but only wheezed. A horrible pain went through my whole body and I was seeing stars. My final thought was, 'I won’t survive this pain.' I started to black out, my thoughts became confused, and I thought that I was dying. 

Suddenly, I felt a large improvement. My thoughts became distinct and clear. I was pulled upward where I saw a bright white light. But the light did not blind me, it was calming and pleasant. I thought, 'What is that? What’s happening to me?' Then I saw myself in a meadow. I sat on the grass and was playing with the grass and flowers. The part of the meadow I was on was separated from another part by a small stream. On the other side was a girl, about 13 years old, sitting and holding a little book. There were four children sitting and listening to her. They briefly looked at me and then continued to do what they were doing. I somehow knew that I had to wait here until my fate: to stay here or to go back was decided. But I wanted to stay. 

Suddenly I heard someone calling, 'Miss, Miss!' I thought that someone was calling the girl, so I continued to sit there. Then the girl said to me, 'Don’t you hear, they’re calling you.  Go back!’ I answered, 'I don’t want to go back.  I like it here.'  We again heard the call, and the girl said, 'Go back, they’re disrupting us.' 'Fine,' I said, 'I’ll go tell them to stop bothering us and then I’ll come back.' The girl only smiled at my words. I went to the edge of the stream and looked down. I saw myself lying in the snow with my arms thrown wide. At that instant I came to in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  декабрь,1958

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My thoughts got mixed up from the strong pain and I started to black-out. The impact freed me from my body and suddenly my thoughts became distinct and clear as never before.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not notice an improvement in vision, but colors seemed brighter there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not notice that my hearing changed.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw five unfamiliar children there.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When I came out of my body, I saw a bright white light. I was carried directly into it. Then I came to in a bright green field.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was so peaceful and pleasant there that I didn’t want to return for anything in the world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I am sure that it was not a dream and that I was definitely in THAT world. After that event I looked for confirmation of this in print. Now there is more than enough confirmation. Fortunately, God gave me the ability to come out of my body and travel to that world, where I have now been seven times.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My convictions changed as an adult.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian-Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Previously I believed neither in God, nor in a purpose to life. Now everything is in its place. I believe that God exists. That the purpose of life is to do no evil to anyone, and then there will be peace on earth. We will not have to suffer on earth, and then bring punishment on ourselves in the next world for it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Я была ещё семь раз на том свете и твёрдо уверена ,что жизнь после смерти есть!

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have premonitory dreams. For example, every year I dream about where I will spend my holidays. Also my soul can come out of my body and travel. I have made seven trips to that world and one on Earth in the body of an owl.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was very important for me to learn that the soul can separate from the body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told someone, my husband, about it for the first time after ten years. He said that it was nonsense. Only recently has he started to believe some of it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Because previously, no one had told me that such a thing was possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fiveia_nde.html