{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fifi_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Fifi T Probable NDE 4402","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fifi T Probable NDE 4402  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fifi T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2190 Fifi T Probable NDE 4402  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I wrote this in my journal a few months later; because I was afraid I would 'lose it' as one loses a dream. Although it has been over six years since it happened, I know today as I knew when it happened, it was not a dream, and it was a miracle that was allowed me from God.

I was in bed, although I don't sleep well, I hadn't been diagnosed with sleep apnea yet (this would come four long sickly years later).

The short version is as I wrote it exactly:

Vision: Not a dream-saw it November 2003 half-way asleep. Saw the gates of heaven with huge bright lights in the sky bubbling out of it. I saw female angels' faces smiling at me, happy with me.

Felt - wanted to go into the light, felt love and forgiveness that is not humanly possible in this life. You never want to leave it. This lasted probably two seconds, but the longest two seconds ever. Felt like what is portrayed in 'out of body' experiences.

Question: why did I see this? Why was there an angel looking at me? She WAS female. She was very happy this day. I didn't want it to end. Can't wait to be there forever, felt NO pain in my body.

 - end of journal -

To describe further, I was standing in space, but I did not see a horizon. There was no atmosphere as there is on earth, no limited vision or degradation of colors farther out. There was no sun. Light was emitted in everything and out of everything. The city looked something like pictures I have seen of Jerusalem, the city glowed, every molecule was lit, I felt this light in me, part of me, and I was part of it. In this light, I felt incredible, indescribable love and forgiveness that only God can give. I love my life, my children and husband. I do not wish to die or be 'done with life'. But once I have felt the peace and love of that place, if I HAD HAD A CHOICE, I would have not left. Matter of fact, I did not give my family on earth a second thought. (Which kind of disturbs me.)

The city was floating, not set in earth or clouds, I don't remember the 'space' nor could I describe it, but there was space between myself the angel and the city behind her.

The angel's face was all that I saw, it was smiling and I could tell she loved me and was happy for me and with me, but she was not letting me pass.

I didn't have a body, so I don't know how I would have 'walked' but I knew I was spiritual (somehow, in hindsight). The city was surrounded by a gate. There was a beautiful gate and all I can describe it as was a solid gold (?) gate to kept people out.

It didn't keep people in. I saw no one else, but I knew Jesus was there, but I was not going to get to see Him, it wasn't my 'time'.

The feeling of love was not an ebb and flow feeling it was solid, real, and filled every molecule of my spirit (non-body self). It was amazing, and no feeling this glorious has been experienced by myself in my living body on earth, and I'm not a miserable person, I'm pretty happy most of the time.

I was suddenly thrust into a nightmare of some type, I believe my brain was trying to make sense of what my body was doing (not breathing) and compensating for my spiritual being thrust back into my physical body. I was drowning (one of my worst fears thanks to Hollywood and my father almost letting me drown as a small child), and I was frantically swimming to the surface in very green heavy water, and I was gulping for breath. I of course, out of my dream, was holding my breath and my body was compensating and grasping to breath.

After this 'vision' or 'NDE,' I have never been the same.

Although I have considered myself a Christian since I was a small child. I have had evidences of His miracles, of His corrections, of His blessing throughout my life, THIS - thing, confirmed what I believed in, in faith, to what I KNOW from experience.

I told my husband and my children, a few people I have mentioned, just kind of look at me. I'm afraid they think it was just a wild dream. I know it wasn't. I do have 'wild dreams', and they are nothing like what I had that night.

I have two more experiences with sleep apnea that did not have the 'feelings of love' with them. But they were vivid, and I felt I was looking at the same city and in the same 'place' as my NDE.

I was standing high, (many miles high) on unearthly mountains, and looking down into the 'city' that I had seen on my NDE. I was looking into a city that was probably as big as the US is.

Again, there was no atmosphere or degradation of sight with addition of space.

NO SHADOWS from buildings, light came from every molecule of the building, no sunshine, no clouds, and a beautiful city.  I thought and think that this was home. I could see no persons or beings, just beauty and peace.

I was allowed to see this twice. I have not seen it since; it was probably within the year I had my NDE that I saw the city again.

How do I know that the Lord has His eye and hands on me?

I'm going to tell you something that I have told no one, especially my husband.

I cheated on Him within the first year of my marriage. A marriage that was vowed in church, I was a baptized woman who knew better, but I was terribly selfish, childish and my husband was experimenting with drugs and never home. I had terrible influences through work that pushed and egged me into it.

The next day, after the day I cheated, my wedding ring broke. The gold band literally split and broke.

When I saw that, a fear of GOD literally almost loosened my bowels, I cried and felt more grief then I have ever felt in my life.

To say the least, I have never done that again, nor do I sorely test my Lord God because I know He watches and He warns.

Because of this and a few other things in my life like this, I know God is real, and He has His hands on us, we are here to glorify Him in all that we think, say and DO!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I stopped breathing during sleep many times through the night (I was diagnosed with sleep apnea June 2009 with a sleep test and am currently sleeping with a breathing machine.  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' undiagnosed (at the time) sleep apnea  I was holding my breath to the point I believe I died for a few seconds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment I left my body, there was no going into a tunnel, or light at the end of the tunnel, I immediately went from closing my eyes in bed to BAM, the city standing before me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time, just space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In this place (that I saw in all visions), there is no atmosphere. As an artist, if you paint a picture or take a photograph, you will see that everything is vivid in detail and color close up, and as you focus your eyes further out, things become less detail, and less saturated with color. In this place, I will call it heaven, there is no loss in detail or saturation, and there is no atmosphere to degrade it. There is 'space' though, because there was a beginning to the city, I did not see the 'end' of the city though, and it went backwards away from me, so I know there is space there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think I heard beautiful singing or music but I'm not sure if I actually heard it, or felt it, or honestly if I just believe it because I have read it in the Bible. I'm not sure.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Angel, not allowed to see her body, I perceived her female, female face, very large cheeky cheeks, she knew me, I didn't know her. She was keeping me from going in. She kept me from getting too close. She kept me approximately in earthly space about half a mile away from the gates of heaven. She talked to me not with her mouth but in my mind.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was instant, and it came from nowhere, and is everywhere. It is not like a light bulb or the sun, it casts no shadows, for it to cast a shadow, it would have direction, there is no direction from light in heaven, the light comes from everywhere, and is in everything and is Jesus who is the light and is in every molecule of that place.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The city, heaven? Looked like a glorified Jerusalem to me, surrounded by 15 foot gates as far as the eye could see, because there is space there, I could not see past the front of the city, but I could see it kept going and going on.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt forgiveness.  There was no guilt, no physical or emotional pain (all life's guilt GONE).  I felt love that is not felt in our human bodies and believe me I LOVE MY HUSBAND AND KIDS.  I felt joy and PEACE.  There was a feeling of being settled and set straight.  I also had a feeling of being given a gift in this experience and that I should be honored and thankful. (and I AM)  I knew that God loves us and knows us.  He is letting us be here on earth, if only for a moment.  The angels let me know that I was the right road, keep going, keep the faith. They told me that we are always here, we are with you, we love you, now go back and keep loving HIM.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     That my faith in Jesus was absolutely spot on correct.  My faith is real and in something that is absolutely real, not just a hope in my mind anymore. I know it is real.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The angel kept me from both getting too close and seeing too much. I believe my faith is precious to the Lord and we are to believe God by faith, not by knowledge, I believe that if I was allowed to see too much, my faith would be somehow not as precious to God. The angel was protecting my faith relationship with the Father of heaven.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'I have had a strong belief in Christ and have actually been led by Him in many circumstances, I have always felt His guidance and love, and sternness in my life.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I love church now, I found a good church which speaks in love and truth, and instead of going 'because you should' I go because I want to KNOW HIM BETTER, and I want to give HIM GLORY, and I want to be around other people who love Him like I do. When church used to be such drudgery, NOW I can't WAIT TO GO, I also go to two Bible studies, a woman's during the week, and a couple's every other week. I love going, I love to LEARN from the Bible. I love the history, the faith stories and what God wants us to LEARN about Him while we are on earth. It's more exciting than TV. I don't watch TV anymore; I hate the hatred towards God and goodness. I love people, even those who hate God, but they hurt me to be around them.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I love church now, I found a good church which speaks in love and truth, and instead of going 'because you should' I go because I want to KNOW HIM BETTER, and I want to give HIM GLORY, and I want to be around other people who love Him like I do. When church used to be such drudgery, NOW I can't WAIT TO GO, I also go to two Bible studies, a woman's during the week, and a couple's every other week. I love going, I love to LEARN from the Bible. I love the history, the faith stories and what God wants us to LEARN about Him while we are on earth. It's more exciting than TV. I don't watch TV anymore; I hate the hatred towards God and goodness. I love people, even those who hate God, but they hurt me to be around them.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   God is real, Jesus is real, and heaven is real.  Going to heaven is real, Jesus is light, and light is in everything. He holds us together, He sees every movement, every eye flutter, He knows our thoughts, He protects us, He punishes us, He allows us miracles, you know it is real if it proclaims Jesus is King, our purpose is to glorify Jesus the Son, per God the Father in all we do and say and think. The Bible is real, and for the most part what God wants us to know about Him while we live. There are rewards in heaven. God loves everyone. Abortion is wrong, because God puts every child in those women, and we 'play' God when we abort them. Jesus will be waiting when I did to take me 'in' the gates. God loves Jerusalem. That's pretty much what I have taken from this experience, the knowledge given me.  In three words 'HE IS REAL'.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love and forgive more easily, I no longer covet things of others, worldly things don't matter much to me anymore. I still like this world, and think much of it that God creates is beautiful, but man is so messed up when they live without HIM, they make it ugly. I find myself wanting to be around Christians because they have the essence of love for God, that people who are spiritually dead to God DO NOT HAVE. I find people who HATE GOD, hard to be around, it actually makes me slightly sick physically.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Out of body, not feeling your body, there is no pain, I was not a 'sick' person, I had a thyroid missing, but I did not have diabetes (yet) or arthritis or anything wrong with me. Once I was 'rid' of my body, the STUNNING feeling of NOT being in it was almost, excuse my description, orgasmic in nature. I can't imagine how amazing it would feel to someone old, in pain from an accident, cancer person leaving the body, how much the difference would be then.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a faith in Jesus that is hard to explain, it brings me to tears many times, I often cry in church when we sing His praises. I see Him not visually but almost spiritually in my life every day. I think about Him all the time, I can't function without Him. I realize I'm nothing without Him, I want to share this with others but people think I'm a raving lunatic so I tone it down and only try to 'be' as good as Him. When evil things are done or said around me (cursing, hurting of feelings) it is like being bruised or hit.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I was on the right road, that I was living my life as I should, and that there was a place especially for me when I die, and that it will be good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared within days to my kids and husband, within a year with a few other people. It's hard to describe to people verbally they think you're insane.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real, but I try not to think about it too much anymore, because I'm supposed to love my life and glorify HIM during my life, and thinking about that experience makes me want to die and be there, and that is not my place to want that or think that.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     More real than this life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I do not believe that I am crazy.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You seem to be asking all the right questions. I can't offer anything else.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fifi_t_probable_nde.html