{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fernando_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Fernando S NDE 5399","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fernando S NDE 5399  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fernando S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2967 Fernando S NDE 5399  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was out with friends as a youngster when, driving down Lake Hill, the brakes of the VW Beetle we were in failed and we went straight into a rock. I was projected through the car windshield. I became aware that I was floating, entirely lucid but out of my body and completely conscious of what was going on. There were some other spirits or highly developed beings, but I didn’t know who they were. They were invisible to me although I could feel their presence. The feeling of peace was huge and transcendental, as I had never felt before. There were no signs of problems, anxiety or anguish. All my problems were gone. The surrounding environment of peace and serenity, which was a rose-whitish tone, worked as a profound magnetic field, which I was attracted to. I started moving towards it and knew intuitively, or something was telling me, that if I was to cross that frontier I would not be able to return. There was a barrier, putting a limit on life and death, and it was quite clear. At that moment, a voice in my mind was telling me that I should return because my objective in life was still pending. There was a lot to do yet. Immediately I felt a wish to return and, gaining consciousness, I found myself stuck into the car windshield.

People around were trying to get me out of the car and I, showing an irrational strength and with an open wound in my neck, got out of the car by myself through the window and calmly walked to another vehicle and was driven to the hospital. Once I realized what had happened to me from the damage to my body I just panicked. At the hospital, I was told that the cut on my neck stopped only a couple of millimeters from a main artery, and that fact literally saved my life. I don’t know to what point there was some paranormal influence in keeping my body alive, but I believe I was given a second chance at life in order for me to accomplish my mission through an existence that I knew it would be neither easy nor simple. In spite of being aware of out of body experience since I was five years old, this particular one was the strongest of all my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other 'Saúde muito boa, contexto de acidente de carro.'  Car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While out of the body, floating lucidly within a transcendental peace and serenity.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like I had entered a different realm of the reality of space-time, where time almost didn’t exist or had stopped. It was another world, a parallel reality.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I couldn’t be accurate.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn’t be accurate.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt inside of a rose-whitish dome of light but I didn’t see any tunnel, although I saw a tunnel in other out of the body experiences.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were there but I couldn’t see them. I didn’t know them, but they communicated without the need of thought, just feeling. I was told that I should return, otherwise if I was to cross that limit I would die.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like a rose-whitish dome of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Profound peace, serenity, profound support, absolute absence of anxiety or anguish feelings, transcendence and depth, meaning of life and truth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Like in a pack, instantly.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was like a barrier in space-time within alternating dimensions. There was something there almost like a physical barrier, which was a demarcation dividing two worlds and could be picked up through feelings.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Não tinha religião definida.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     This is another proof of a spiritual and non-physical life. I’m have been familiar with this since I was five years old, but this experience was quite different. It provided a very high degree of clarity.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Não tenho religião definida.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     This is another proof of a spiritual and non-physical life. I’m have been familiar with this since I was five years old, but this experience was quite different. It provided a very high degree of clarity.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A general knowledge without the need of words, just the meaning of the truth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I can’t tell. I believe I value higher life and myself.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot convey the experience itself - the feelings or the depth of the transcendental experience. It’s like the experience itself can only be understood by means of living it. I believe this is transcendence.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The no return passage. It was quite impressive. There’s an area that if crossed over we can’t return. I took the decision to return but I could have left my life behind. I knew intuitively that I had a lot to do here. I was given a responsibility. Today I understand because I’m a parapsychologist and I have published more than 170 articles about this subject and related issues. I had a purpose in this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only many years later when I understood its meaning.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Absolutely real, even more than now as I write this experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Before and after the experience. I can personally induce this type of out of body experience frequently, and I have researched this area for decades.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This is a real scientific evidence that can’t be denied.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fernando_s_nde.html