{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fausto_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Fausto M NDE 5398","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fausto M NDE 5398  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fausto M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3033 Fausto M NDE 5398  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had gone on vacation, at the invitation of a young married couple, to Monterrey, Nuevo León, in Mexico. It's a place where there are extremes of climate. It was about 1978. When I was in this beautiful State in Mexico, my friend's wife, who is also a friend of mine, invited me to go for a walk in the countryside, as she knew that I love to be in contact with nature, and so about eight of us, in all, set out together.

After some hours we were all feeling the strength of the hot weather, when we spotted a 'bordo' (a little space where there is water), and we approached it, and I remarked that the Father had shown himself, to give us refreshment. I proceeded to take off my clothes, to get in the water, and urged the others, my friends, to get in too. But they declined, as they were concerned there might be mud and entangling branches in the deep water and we could hurt ourselves or get stuck, suffering a major accident. As I couldn't convince them, I went in and the first thing I did was look for mud and branches, so that they could join me as long as I did not find any. 

I was dragging my feet along searching for these things, when suddenly I got my right leg caught and couldn't get free. Calmly, without getting desperate and without fear, I thought, 'I'll go and tell them that there are branches and mud, that I'm stuck, and someone needs to come and help me.'  I have no idea how much time passed, but I came out of my body (something I have known about from the age of 8). Exiting, I rose up and saw my friends on the bank, worried and making remarks like, 'He has been a long time coming back up, maybe something has happened to him?' or 'That crazy Fausto, why didn't he tell us he could hold his breath this long?' or again, 'Has something happened, he has been a long time!' I could hear them clearly. I was right beside them. I remember saying, 'Yes, I am stuck, could someone come and help me!' 

They went on in a state of desperation and anxiety but they did not get in the water. They couldn't hear me.  After shouting at them and receiving no response, I resigned myself, thinking, 'OK, there is no way out, I'll go back to my body and wait for my death.'  I went back under water, saw my entangled body floating with arms outstretched, and I went back into my body, peaceably awaiting death, eyes shut and starting to be bothered by the water. Then suddenly I felt a hand under my right armpit, another on my stomach, another in my left armpit, and one more on my back around the area of my waist. I thought to myself, 'My friends have come down to rescue me.'

As I had my eyes shut, my idea was to give them a fright, pretending to be dead, and then slowly open my eyes to see who was there. I looked to the right, what a surprise I had.  It was a being completely covered in a white sheet, and I asked myself, 'Who or what is this being?' Then, slowly turning to the left, I saw another similar being to the first, and I wondered again, 'Who or what are these beings, what kind of strange prank is this?' I had no fear, I was calm and not desperate, thinking about what I could see.  

Then, I felt other hands taking hold of my legs, so slowly, very slowly. I bent or inclined my head a bit forwards, to look down, my eyes half-open, and saw a third being, the same as the other two, who were holding my body up (armpits, stomach and back). This third being moved my entangled foot, freeing it, while the other two started to move upwards and get me out of the water, at which point I felt the pressure of the hand on my stomach, and that on my back, making me regurgitate the water I had swallowed. They kept on lifting me and left me on the bank of the pond taking in air, right near to my friends, who were really worried. While they were telling me off for my behavior, seeing them so anxious and alarmed that I could not reply, I did my best to signal them to calm down, and then asked them if they had not seen the beings who rescued me? When they all answered that they had seen nothing, I asked them to leave me to recover, after which I got dressed and we went back home without further discussion.

I went on with my life as normal, and only 34 years later did these happenings provide the key for me to understand and accept a knowledge, which is ABSOLUTE, THE TRUTH, GNOSIS.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was stuck underwater and drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Since I didn't know how long I was under, for me, time did not count. According to my friends, it was between 5 and 8 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have realized that my sense of vision was more acute, since at first I could see nothing because of the murky water.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first I heard nothing then I could hear the movement of the water.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Seemingly human beings wearing close-fitting white robes, which appeared there. I did not know them and they said nothing to me, they just saved me and looked at me with an expression, which transmitted peace. I could perceive this even through the covering fabric.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just amazement at what was happening.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know God does exist. I am conscious that I am, that there is a divinity, consciousness, creator or great light from which we all come and to which we all return. I am conscious that life is life.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know God does exist. I am conscious that I am, that there is a divinity, consciousness, creator or great light from which we all come and to which we all return. I am conscious that life is life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because of the beings of light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The presence of the beings of light was significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In 1976 I had a motorbike accident and relatives took me for dead. Telling about the experience does not affect it, on the contrary, it helps me to understand what happened, and come to terms with it more easily.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real, as I realized, much later in my search for the truth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real, for my search for the truth, my experiences, observations and experiments made during that search.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Events during my search which reproduced my experiences near death and many other things.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fausto_m_nde.html