{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 2431","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n19_aug_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N19 August 1885","mylang":"de"}
BOo XlX..-VOL. XL ACGCST. 1886.
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
COB''l'BB''l'I.
PAS. PAS.
N_ )(emben and AIIoeIaIei .. •• •• 1 ICount Gonemp' Cue of )(onl&lon• .te. . . 5
HeeUntr of Counell .• •. •. •. •. •• 1 C- Recelved b1 the JJter&ry Com·
~ and AlteraUoDi of View .• 2 miUse ••••...•.•...... 7
J[ugina . . . • •• •• •. •. •• •• , CorreIpondenoe. . •• .. . . . . . . . . 25
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
DOBBIE, A. W., Gawler Place, Adelaide, Australia.
GOODHART, REV. CHARLES A., M.A., St. Barnabas Vicarage, Sheffield.
ASSOCIATES.
BECKET, MISS MARlA, Hotel Vendome, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
H.UU1I8, MISS, 40, Lothrop Street, Queen's Park, Harrow Road, /
London, W.
LEWl8, Mas. W. B., Wt;ybridge Heath, Surrey.
WBTHERED, F. J., M.R.C.S., London Hospital, London, E.C.
MEETING OF COUNCn.
At a Council Meeting, held on the 7th inst., the following Members
were present :-Messrs. Alexander Calder, Edmund Gurney, Charles
C. Massey, Edward R. Pease, Professor H. Sidgwick, and Mr. Frank
Podmore. The chair was taken by Professor Sidgwick.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting having been read and signed
as correct, two new Members and four new Associates were elected,
whose names and addresses are given above.
Presents to the Library were on the table, including two of Miss
Frances Power Cobbe's works, presented by herself. The thanks of the
Council were directed to be given to the donors. The books are
specially acknowledged in another page.
The usual Cash Account for the previous month was presented,
and various payments authorised.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 2nd of
October, at 4.45 p.m.
B
Digitized by Google
2 Jourllal of Society for P8!JcMcal Re8earcll. [Aug., 18815.
RETRACTATIONS AYD ALTERATIONS OF VIEW.
The following are the remarks which Mr. E. Gurney made on this
subject at the last General Meeting:-
Something was said at the last Meeting implying that the Committee
appointed to investigate phenomena connected with the Theosophical
Society had, in their conclusions, to some extent retracted what had
been said in their First Report. But I think it must be clear to any
candid reader of the First Report that what the Committee did in it
was this-to define, on their then imperfect knowledge, what were the
questions which further knowledge might enable them to determine,
and which, as they think, they have now on their further knowledge
determined. The only point where they expressed a definite view
which they have altered was in connection with Colonel Olcott, as so
fully explained in Mr. Hodgson's Report.
I say this not from any desire to Juke out or imply an
invariable consistency in our published Reports. Psychical research
is eminently a department in which workers ha,-e to learn as they
proceed. And I may take the present opportunity of mentioning that
there are several points in which we think that the increase of our stock of
information has led us to Ilo more corrf>Ct view as to what can be properly
put forward as evidence for telepathy, and what cannot; with the result
that several cases which we have no reason to suppose inaccurately
reported, and which we have published as supporting the telepathic
argument,do not now seem to us fairly to do so. I maymention especially
the cases where the percipient,at the time of seeing the phantasmal figure
or hearing the phantasmal voice, has been in a state of anxiety with
regard to the person whom we regarded as the agent. In some of these
cases we have not made sufficient allowance for the possihility that the
state of the percipient might have generated a purely subjecth-e phan-
tasm. That mere anxiety is a condition adequate to produce a definite
visual hallucination in a waking person is, it is true, very far from
being a self-evident proposition. The assertion has often been loosely
made; just so has the assertion that cold lobster is an adequate condi-
tion often been loosely made; but in neither case have proofs been
forthcoming. Now this illustrates the importance of making a very
large collection of purelysubjectin or pathologic hallucinations, as lVell
as of alleged telepathic cases. A very large collection has been gradu-
ally amassed, and in it I do not find a single case of hallucination due
to indigestion; but I do find material from which it may, I think, fairly
be argued that the nervous strain of anxiety is occasionally able to
generate hallucination of the senses. Consequently we shall feel bound
in future to exclude from the evidence for telepathy all, or nearly all,
the cases where this condition is shown or may fairly be inferred to
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] Journal qf Societ!lfor PS!lchical Re&earch. 3
------------------
bve been present. If the effect on the senses of the percipient can be
due to a subjective emotion such as anxiety, we should not feel justified
{unless in very exceptional circumstances) in seeking or assuming any
further cause for it in the state of an absent person.
There are, however, two (and only two) of our published accounts
where we have to acknowledge error of a different sort. In these, it is
no longer a matter of our own misinterpretation of facts; but we have
learnt, since publishing the cases, that the facts were misreported to
begin with-that there has been exaggeration or inaccuracy on the partof
our informants, of a sort that (in one case, at any rate) fundamentally
affects the evidence.
The first instance is that of Sir E. Hornby, who told us of a
-certain death as having occurred coincidentally with a vision of
bis own; whereas the death was afterwards asserted, by a person
apparently acquainted with the facts, to have occurred at least
three months previously. Sir E. Hornby at once admitted-with
-complete candour-that if this assertion turned out to be true, his
memory must have played him the most extraordinary trick. We then
did what I take blame to myself for not thinking of before the case
was published-searched the files of Chinese newspapers at the British
Museum; we found that the critic's assertion was correct, and that the
man did die three months before Sir E. Hornby supposed. And the
case, as recorded, thus completely breaks down.
The second instance is thllot of Mr. X. Z. (Proceedi.ngs, Vol. I.,
p. 106.) The account of his examining the parish register, and finding
there the record of the two deaths-the murder and thp. suicide-as
having occurred in 179-, is entirely wrong. 'Ve have now done
what we ought to have done before-had the rt'gister searched; and we
find no record of the sort at all. We have ascertained otherwise that
a. former owner of the house did commit suicide, but not in this house,
and, moreover, not till 1809, and in May instead of September. l\Ir.
X. Z. further told us that he went with a friend to calion the landlord
in London, on which occasion the portrait of the apparition was
recognised; but he proves to have been wrong as to the friend with
whom he went; and the friend who, as he now tells us, accompa.nied
him, is dead. These inaccuracies do not, it is true, affect the account
of the a.pparition itself, but they greatly weaken the evidence for its
objective origin. Moreover, a narrative which is so far proved inac-
curate is clearly not one that could properly be used for evidential
purposes.
In cases of this sort, where flaws are discovered in accounts which
have been given us in perfect good faith, what we have done and what
we propose to do in future, is this-to withdraw the narrative, with an
admission of its incorrectness. For instance, in the second edition o(
Digitized by Google
4 Journal of Societyfor P8!1ciliCaI Re8earciJ. [Aug., 188.',.
the number of the Proueding, where Sir E. Hornby's story appeared,
another case was substituted, with a note to state that the rejected
evidence had broken down on the fundamental point of dates; and a.
similar explanation was given in the Jourrwl. The same course will be
pursued with regard to Mr. X. Z.'s story, as to which the facts just.
mentioned have only been ascertained within the last few weeks. We
think that this treatment answers the requirements of the position~
without causing unnecessary annoyance to a perfectly bondfole witness.
It is, of course, otherwise in cases of fraud.
MARGINS.
I fear that the apparent difference of opinion between my courteous
critic "C. C. M." and myself must be due to defective expression on my
part, for I entirely agree with him that if a phenomenon can be shown
to lie in the margin between what is known to be possible aud what is
clearly impossible, so far as recognised causes are concerned, we have an
unexplained fact--more or less unexplained according to the extent to
which it goes beyond known possibilities. But such an unexplained
fact, in my view, is the starting-point of psychical research, not the
conclusion at which it seeks to arrive: to prove the presence of a new
agency it must, I contend, go further j it must go beyond the unex·
plained to the inexplicable.
No rule can, however, be laid down for determining the reasonable
margin, and the task is especially difficult when we cannot reduce the
question to an alternative between a definitely known cause and the
unknown, but are in doubt as to what known agencies may have
operated unperceived.
An illustration of what I mean is afforded by our study of the
"willing-game." Before it was known from experience that muscular
indications could be given and taken unconsciously to the extent re-
quired to explain the willing-game, it was recognised by our inquirers
that this might be possible, and that consequently experiments in
thought-transference with contact between agent and percipient, could
not prove telepathy. And their caution was soon justified; for Mr.
Sugden and others showed that such unconscious muscular indications
are given, and ca!l__be consciously interpreted.
E. M. S.
Digitized by Google
•
Aug.,188!;.] Journal of Society lor Psychicailluearck.
COUNT GONEMYS' CASE OF :MONITION
AND MESMERIC CURE.
In the Journo.l for March, 1885, we published an interesting
case sent to us by Dr. Nicolas, Count Gonemys, of Corfu, 0. member
of the Society for Psychico.l Research. We o.re now able to add an im-
portant confirmation of part of tho.t o.ccount. The following is 0. slightly
abridged translation of a. letter written in Ita.lia.n by Demetrio Volterra.,
Count Crissoplevri, to Dr. Nicolas, Count Gonemys, o.nd do.ted, Zante
7th (19th) June, 1885.
Honoured Sir and Doctor,-I am in receipt of your letter of the 3rd
(15th), and hasten to reply thereto. My wife, my son Anastasio, and I can
all testify that the mesmeric cure which you effected of my son in the year
1869 appeared no leas than a miracle, and made a great sensation in our
country, since the nervous malady under which my son suffered was so
violent that all the doctors in Zante, called into consultation, were unable to
understand or relieve it, and absolutely despaired of a recovery. .At that
time you arrived at Zante as officer of health (medico militate), and I begged
you to come and visit my son. You declared at your first visit, in the
presence of other physicians, that his condition was moat desperate, but that
nevertheleas you felt sure that he would be restored to health by a mesmeric
(magnetic) cure.
Although all your colleagues opposed this opinion, since they had no
belief in mesmerism, we relied on you, and you began your cure, by means
of which my s:m was completely saved.
Of those who were present at the cure, Dr. Carvellaa and both Verikios
are dead, Dr. Cokinakis is established elsewhere, and Dr. Margaris is now
at Naples. My daughter (Madame Couzojaunopoulos) is also living in Naples.
But I have obtained the signatures of my wife, my son, M. Vaasopouloa,
and M. Xanthopoulos, who were always present, and are cognisant of all
the facts which I am about to narrate.
And first of all, before you reached Zante, and up to a few hours before
your actual visit to my house, we had never thought of you, nor desired
your arrival in order to consult you about our boy, nor had the patient
himself, in his moments of relative calm, ever expressed such a desire.
On your arrival in Zante, however, I called on you in my distrcss, con-
ducted you to my house, and entrusted to you the care of my son.
He had long been suffering from a very strange nervous disease, aft'ecting
his whole cerebro-spiual axis (tutu le e1~rgie del IUO aui. ce1·ebt'o·,pi,ude),
which mo.ny doctors in Zante had vainly endeavoured to cure.
You suggested the use of ammal magnetism; you magnetised him during
his crises, and he became clairvoyant. During his cure, which lasted about
three months, he prescribed for himself different remedies, which never failed
to benefit him. He succeeded in foretelling the day and hour when a specially
violent nervous attack would come on, and the number of hours that it
would last, which happened according to prediction.
On one occasion he directed you to mesmerise him and leave him asleep
for eightconsecutive days and nights, which was actually done, nor did he take
Digitized by Google
6 Journal of Society for P'1Jchicl41 Re8earch. [Aug•• IS8&.
any food during that time except a little Ol'gllllt with bi.acuit and liquorice-
juice.
On two occasions you sent him to sleep from your own house, at a distance.
Sometimes when in tile sleep he rebelled against your magnetic influence,
and mesmerised hiB own pillow in order to free himself from your impulse,
but you always succeeded in overcoming him in the conflict. Sometimes he
spat in your face, and afterwards bitterly repented, and aaid that he W88 not.
himself when he committed such an act. He foretold the day and the hour
of his recovery a month and a-half before-hand. He aaid that on that day
you would have to struggle with him with all your magnetic power, and that.
if you conquered in the struggle he would be completely cured. All this took
place to the letter. As soon 88 the hour of that struggle had been traversed
he fell into a magnetic sleep, and declared himself to be perfectly cured, a&
in fact he haB remained ever since.
Before your arrival at Zante I had no acquaintance with you whatever,
although 1 have been many years at Corfu 88 Deputy to the Legialative
Aaaembly, nor had we ever spoken together, nor had 1 ever aaid a wOl"d to
you about my BOn. As I before aaid, we had never thought of you, nor
desired your 888istance until I called on you on your arrival aB officer of
health, and begged you to Ave my BOn.
We owe his life first to you and then to mesmerism.
I hold it my duty to declare to you my sincere gratitude, and to subscribe
myself affectionately and sincerely youra,
DEMETRIO VOLTERRA, Count CriaBoplevri.
(Additional signatures) LAURA VOLTERRA.
DIONISIO D. VOLTRRRA, Count CriaBoplevri.
'0 IhpmrnJ8i&,; Al'GecilT&o,; Bo"A:rfpPa.
(AnBBt88io Volterra, the cured patient.)
O. VAllSOPOULOS (come tuUmonio)"
DEMETRIO, OOMTE GUERINO (confel"mo).
LoRENZO T. MER(;ATI.
It will be Obsel'ved that M. Volterra does not seem to have been
consciously thinking of Dr. Nicolas at the time when the latter heard
the monitory voice "Go to Volterra.... This fact certainly makes
against a telepathic explanation, and if we exclude the hypothesis
of chance coincidence, places the C&S6 more decidedly in the class of
pre1nonitions, with which we have not yet dealt. Premonition, it need
not be said, invoh'es difficulties even more serious than those which n.
theory of telepatlty has to surmount. We have received a number of
curious cases of this kind; but our collection needs to be much en-
larged before any decided opinion can safely be formed on the subject.
Premonitions of trifling, but definite and unexpected, events are par-
ticularly asked for, as necessary elements in the formation of any
generaJ. judgment.
FREDERIC W. H. l\lYEIlS.
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] JOlmaal of Society for P81Jchwal Re86urcA. 7
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY CO}[MITTEE.
(Continued.)
L.-2307.-Ad pn
The following case was sent to us by Miss Scott Moncrietf, of 44,
Shooter's Hill-road, Blackheath, who is intimately a.cquainted with the
na.rra.tor. The percipient's knowledge that Major F. G. was in a
critical state, is, of course, an element of weakness; but it remains a
remarkable coincidence that she should have had her one experience of
an apparition at the exact hour of his death.
Cheltenham,
May, 1885.
An attack of rheumatiun and nervous prostration left me far from well
for lOme weeks last spring, and one night I had a strange unaccountable
vision which baa left a vivid impression upon my memory. 1 had gone
to bed early and W!lS lying awake alone with a night light burning in
order in some degree to dispel the gloom. Suddenly across the lower
end of the room passed Major F. Go's figure, dressed in his usual every-
day costume, neither his features nor his figure any whit altered. It was no
dream, nor was I in the least delirious or wandering, therefore a conviction
seized me that something must have occurred; in consequence 1 particularly
marked the hour, when the clock struck 11 shortly afterwards. Tho next
moming I was not the least surprised when my sister handed me a note from
Mias F. G. announcing her brother's death, and was fully prepared before
reading it to find that he had passed away before 11 the previous evening,
which preaentiment,atrange to say,was fully verified; MaJor F. G. having died
at a quarter to 11. Major F. G. had returned in a bad state of health from
Egypt. where he had been serving in the campaign of 1883. For lOme time
he appeared to recover and was able to go about and enter into society
during the winter, but during the last month the old symptoms had returned,
and gradually he grew worse and worse, until no hopes of his recovery were
entertained. Though not personally intimate with him, we were well
acquainted with his family, and naturally his case formed a topic of conversa-
tion among us. We had also received bad accounts a few days before and
were aware that he was in a critical condition; nevertheless at the time of
his death he had been quite out of my thoughts and mind. 1 had nelver
before had any apparition of any description whatsoever, nor baa this one
been followed. by any other.
[Major F. G.'s name baa been given to us in confidence.]
In answer to inquiries, Mias P. says:-
c.p.
" As it is lOme time since I related the vision to my sister, slle feels now
unable to add her testimony."
Mias Scott Moncrietr says :-
" As I was at Cheltenham at the time, I call myself 80 far confirm the
story as to mention that on the day after it occurred we heard that the
young lady had been 10 shaken in her nerves by her illneaa that ahe had
Digitized by Google
8 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Aug., 1885.
been seeing what you would call a •hallucination,' and was going to
Malvern for change of air." She adds that Miss P. was staying with her
when the above account was written, and that as to the date: "Both she
and I remembered that it was on a Thursday near the end of March or
beginning of April."
We find from an obituary notice that Major F. G. died on Thurmy,
April3rd, 1884.
L.-2316.-Ad pn
From Colonel Swiney (Duke of Cornwall's Regiment.)
Richmond Barracks, Duplin.
July 14th, 1885.
I have not been succeBBful in obtaining corroborative evidt.nce with
regard to the occurrences mentioned in yours of July lat, but briefly the
facts were as follows as far I can remember :-
It was some time the latter ead of September, 1864, when quartered at
Shorncliffe Camp, I thought I saw my eldest brother (whom at the time I
believed to be in India whl:re he was serving in the Royal Engineers) walking
towards me, and before I could recover from my astonishment the figure
had disappeared. I perfectly well remember mentioning the fact to some of my
brother officers, and saying how curious it was, but never thought much
about it until I received news of his death, which had occurred about (as near
asI can recollect, without having made any note)the time I had imagined I had
seen him, viz., September 24th, 1864, at Nagpore, East Indies, and but for
the f'\etof his death, I should never probablyhaverecalledthe circumstance. I
do not attach much importance to this, it might have been a coincidence,
remarkable certainly, but nothing more. I am afraid it will not be of much
use to you in your inquiries as half its value is gone by my not being able
to bring corroborative evidence to prove that I had mentioned the facts prior
to hearing of his death, although in my own mind I am perfectly certain I
did so. Richard Edgcumbe was quartered at Shorncli1fe at the very time
this occurred.
S. C. SWINEY.
[It was from Mr. R. Edgcumbe that we first heard of this incident.!
In answer to enquiries Colonel Swiney adds :-
(1) Years afterwards, in 1871, at the Cape of Good Hope, I wrote a long
account of it to a Yorkshire gentleman who was collecting data on the
subject of hallucination.
(2) The 24th September, 1864, was a Sunday. I Cl\Ilnot say whether that
was tlle day I mentioned it. My brother died some time, as far as I can
recollect, after the family with whom he was stopping had returned from
church; for I remember the letter saying: "He was so much better, and
asleep, that we thought it safe to leave him for an hour or so. On our return,"
it went on to say, "we found he was very feverish, and he died that after-
noon." Now the time I saw the hallucination could not have been later than
2 p.m. Allowing for the five hours difference of longitude, that would be
gitized by (.oogI
Aug., 1885.] Journal ofSociet!l/or PSJ/chical Research. 9
about 9 a.m., and would not tally. [Colonel Swiney aeems to have reckoned
the difference the wrong way. At any moment the time of day in India is
four or five hours later than the time of day in England j and thus the
coincidence may have been exact.]
(3) I have had a peraow interview with Colonel Schwabe, who was a IUb-
with me in the Carabineers, and he cannot recall the circumstances at all,
indeed, bas no recollection whatever about it. This may be accounted for by
the fact of his having gone abroad very Ihortly afterwards, and we did not
meet for some months after I had heard of my brother's death. At the time
I heard of his death I was stopping with Charles Gurney, shooting, near
Norwich, some time the latter end of October, if not the beginning of
November. When I leceived the letter I knew what was in it, and if I only
knew Charles Gurney's address, I should have liked to ask him if he
ever remembers the morning I received the bad news before I left for
London, saying" How curious; I thought I saw him coming towards me at
Shorncllife a few weeki ago."
L.·-2317.-A PA
From Mr. Joseph A. Chamberlain, High Garrett, Braintree, Essex.
December, 1884.
About 12 or 14 years ago a little scholar in my school, named James
Harrington, WIl.8 very ill with diphtheria. I had been to a village.> about
three miles off to give a lesson on the pianoforte, and was returning on a
dark night about 7 o'clock. I was walking in a narrow footpath between
two hedges, and on coming to a stile I saw a luminous figure Iloa.t over the
stile, meeting me, and gradually disappear at my left hand. I started and
said to myself, "That's Jimmie," then stamped my foot on the ground and
said, "How foolish I am to-night." I reached home about 7.30 to attend to
my evening school, and judge of my surprise, on entering the school, the
caretaker met me at the door, saying, .. Jimmie is dead." " When 7" I
aaid. He answered, "About \J.alf-an-hour ago."
I am almost sure it W:18 on t.he same night, on'coming downstairs for some-
thing for our lick child, I distinctly saw a tall female figure as if for a
muftled up journey, come out of our drawing-room door and glide out of the
front door. I must say it rather startled me.
lD answer to questions Mr. Chamberlain II&Ys:-
(1) The vision in a general way resembled James, especially Il.8 to size.
The features were not clearlydefined, but more like a magic-lantern view not
properly focussed.
(2) I knew that he was ill, but not that he was likely to die.
(3) I was attached to him, but I cannot say I was particularly anxioul
about him. AI far Il.8 I remember, 1 went to the house every evening, Il.8
his father and mother kept the coffee-room of which I had the superinten-
dence ; 10 my mind was occupied with hia. condition j but he was not in my
thoughts before I saw the luminous figure.
(4) 1 did mention it to our minister, the Rev. A. Macdougall, but I
Digitized by Google
10 JOf,rnal of Soc~tll.for Psychical Re8em·ch. [Aug., lR8.'i
cannot say whether it was at the time or near the time-certainly not on the
same evening. The hct is, I waa rather afraid of being laughed at.
I only wish I had been more careful in recording tile facts. I shall nevt.r
forget the shock I received on entering my evening school half-an-hour
afterwards, and learning from the caretaker that James had died about half-
an-hour before.
L.-2318.-Afl pn
From Mias Paget.
130, Fulham-road, S.W.
July 17Ul, 1885.
The following is the exact account of the curious appearance to me of my
brother. It waa either in 1874 or 1875. My brother waa third mate on
board one of Wigram's large shipe. I knew he waa somewhere on the coaat
of Australia, but I have no recollection of my having been thinking of him
in any special way; though aa he was my only brother, and we were great
friends, there waa a very close bond always between us. My father was
living in the country, and one evening I went into the kitchen by myself
BOOn after 10, to get some hot water from the boiler. There 11'81 a large
Duplex lamp in the kitchen, so it waa quite light; the servants had gone to
bed, IUld I was to turn out the lamp. As I waa drawing the water, I looked
up, and, to my aatoniahment, saw my brother coming towards me from the
outside door of the kitchen. I did not see the door open, aa it waa in a deep
recess, and he waa crossing the kitchen. Tho table waa between us, a.nd he
sat down on the comer of the table furthest away from mo. I noticed he
waa in lUs sailor uniform with 0. monkey jacket on, and the wet waa shining
on his jacket and cap. I exclaimed, "Miles I Where have you como
from 1" He answered in his natural voice, though very quickly, "For God's
sake, don't s::.y I'm here." This waa allover in a few seconds, and aa I
jumped towards him he waa gone. I waa very much frightened, for I bad
really thought it waa my brother himself; and it waa only when he vanished
that I realised it waa only an appearance. I went up to my room and wrote
down the date on a sheet of paper, which I put away in my writing-table,
and did not mention the circumstance to any ono. About three montha
afterwards my brother came home, and the night of his arrival I sat with
him in the kitchen, while he smoked. I aaked him in a caaual manner if he
had had any adventures, IUltl he said, "I waa nearly drowned at Melbourne."
He then told me he waa ashore without leave, and on returning to the ship
after midnight he slipped oft' the gangway between the side of the ship and
the dock. There waa very little space, and if he had not been hauled up at
once, he must have been drowned. He remembered thinking he waa drown-
ing, and then became unconscious. His absence without leave waa not
found out, so ho escaped the punishment he expected. I then
told him of how he had appeared to me, and I aaked him tho date. He
waa able to fix it exactly, aa the ship sailed from Melbourne the samA morn-
ing, which waa the reaaon of his fear of being punished, aa all hands wero
due to bo on board the evening before. The date waa the same aa the date
of his appearance to me, but the houl'll did not agree, aa I saw him BOOn
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] JOllrnal Qf Societyfor P'!lcAical Research. 11
after 10 p.m., and his accident W&8 after midnight. He had no recollection
of thinking specially of me at the time, but he W&8 much struck by the
coincidence, and often referred to it. He did not like it, and olten when he
went away said, "Well, I hope I shan't go dodging about as I did that
tim
• "
e.
I W&8 about 22 at the time, and he was 20. I W&8 always rather afraid I
might see him or othen after this, but I have nevor, before or since,
had any hallucination of the sense of sight. My brother died abroad
three yean ago, and I had no warning then, nor do I imagine I shall ever
see anything again. I am never on the look-out for things of that kind,
but if I ever saw anything again I would make a note of it. I destroyed the
Dote I made of the date &8 soon &8 I had verified it, not thinking it could
interest or concern anyone else.
RUTH PAGET.
[I received an account of this incident two yean before the above was
written, from a friend of Mias Paget's, to whom it had been related by a lady
with whom Mias Paget lives. This older account completely agreed with tho
present more recent one j which shows, at any rate, that the incidents
stand out distinctly in Mias Paget's memory. In conversation, Mias Pagot
told me that at the moment when she mistook the apparition for her
brother himself, she accounted for the 1oetllUB, which she 80 di,tinctly
remarked, by supposing that he had got wet through with rain. There
seems to be no doubt that the coincidence of date was clearly made out,
when the brother and sister talked the matter over. But. if longitude bo
allowed for, the impresaiol1 must have followed the accident by about 10
houn.-E. G.]
The following case, if accurately reported, is of interest &8 a colloctive
hallucination, whatever view be taken &8 to the connection of the figure seen
with Mias Stewart.
L.-2319.-Ad PIl (Collective, "Borderland")
From Mias Edith Farquharson (sent by her relative, M1'II. Murray
Aynslcy,25, Saumarez-street, Guernsey.)
In the year 1868, No.9, Drummond-place, Edinburgh, was in the occu-
pation of Mr. Farquharson, formerly aJudge of the High Court in Jamaica.
On the night of Good Friday in that year, two of his daughten, Mias Edith
Farquharson, hersister Marianne [now Mrs. Henry Murray], and a little
cousin Agnes Spalding, aged six yean, were sleepingin a room at the top of
the houae. About 11.45 p.m., the two siste1'll were awakened by hearing loud
acreama from the child, who W&8 sleeping on a mattresa placed on the Hoor
beside their bed. The mattresa W&8 ngaiuat a door leading into a dressing-
room ; this door W&8 locked and sealed with white tapes and black wax j it
had been thus closed by a member of the family to whom the house belonged
before Mr. Farquharson entered upon his tenancy. The death of the head
of the family and the delicacy of health of one of the daughters, had causcd
them to wish to leave Edinburgh, and spend the winter ill Torquay.
On hearing the child's screams of terror, Mias M. F. touched her sister
Digitized by Google
12 Journal of Society {Of' PS1/cMcal ReseQloch. rAug.,I885.
and said, " Do you hear the child screaming 1" Mias E. F. replied thatahe
did, and turned her head round to listen better. When the child was
asked what she was screaming about, she said, "I am wide awake, and I have
seen a figure which w881eaning over me," and when further questioned
whete the figure went to, said" Round the side of your bed."
Mias E. F., when she turned round, saw a figure glide from near the
child's bed and paaa along the foot of the bedwhereon she and her sister were.
(At the first moment she thought it was a thief.) The latter, on hearing her
say in French, "It y a quelq,,'un," was so terrmedthat she hid her head under
the bedclotheL
MiaaE. F. describes the figure as being dreaaed in a rough brown shawl
held tightly round the bust, a wide brimmed hat, and aveil. When the child
was questioned afterwardashe gave the same account of the costume.
Mias E. F. says that after paaaing along the foot of the bed with a noise-
leBB gliding motion, the figure disappeared into the darkness.
Except the door which W88 locked and sealed, the only door of exit to the
room was one which was quite close to the bed ; at right angles with the door
and with the head of the bed was a large hanging cupboard.
Both the ladies got 'Jp instantly. They found the door of their room
closed, 88 they had left it. Their brother's room W88 next to theirs; they
knocked at his door to rouse him, at the same time keeping a sharp look-out
on the door of their own room to see that no one escaped. The whole party
then made a thorough search in the room and cupboard, found nothing dis-
turbed, and once more retired to reat. The next morning the page-boy said
that he had been unable to aleep all night on account of the sounda he heard
of someone scratching at his window. He declared that he had shied all his
boots and everything he could la.y hold ofin the direction whence the noise
came, but without effect. He could stand it no longer, and went to the room
where some of the women-servants slept, beggin~ to be let in. They had
heard nothing, however, though they, like himself, slept in the basement of
the house.
Mias Farquharson adds :-
The whole family were hardly aaaembled on the Saturday morning, when
tile son-in-law of the late owner of the house arrived, and asked to see Mr
Farquharson. He wished particularly to know exactly what day this gentle-
man and his family intended leaving tho house (their tcrm would expire the
following week), for he had just received II. telegram informing him that hia
aiater-in-law had died that night, and they were anxious to bring her body
there immediately for burial.
With respect to this 188t paragraph, tho narrator's father writes :-
The above is a. correct statement of the occurrence.
O. M. FARQUHARSON.
Mias Farquharson continues :-
TIle possible solution of what we presume to have been an apparition of
this looy is, that the bedroom occupied by the MiBsesFarquharaon being
the Ol1e she habitually used, in her dying moments she desired to vilit it
once more, or else that there was something in the dreBBing-room which she
particularly wished for.
EDITH A. FARQUlIAR8ON.
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] Journal tlf Society fo-r Page/neal Be8eareh. 13
Mrs. Murray writes :-
Cobo, Guemaey.
June 24th, 1885.
Our home W88 in Perthahire ; but in the winter of 1868 my father took a
house for four months in Drummond-place, No.8,. in Edinburgh, in order
to give us a change. The hoWle belonged to General Stewart, who had a
delicate daughter, and he let it. to take the daughter to Torquay for the
winter. We did not know the Stewarts, so our imagination could not have
auisted in any way to account for the curious apparition that was seen. I
myself did not lell it, but I was in the room with my sister and little cousin,
who botb did. My belief is that Providence preyented my seeing it as I
am of a very nervous temperament, and it might have had a very bad effect
upon me if I had. Well, the apparition took place on Good Friday night at
about 12 o'clock. This little cousin, who was only about six years old, had
come into town from the country, and as our hoWle was very full she had
a ahake-down beside our bed on my side. I was the first to be awakened by
hearing her calling out in a frightened way. So I said, "What is the
matter, Addie 1" "Oh," ahe said, "Cousin lIaria.nne, I am so frightened.
A figure has been leaning over me, and whenever I put out my hands to
pUBh it offit leant back on your bed I" At this I was alarmed and awoke
my uter, who lifted her head from her pillow and looked up, when ahe 8&W
a figure gliding &CroM the foot of our bed wrapped in a ahawl, with a hat and
a veil on. She whispered to me in French" n Y II queiqu'un," thinking
it was a thief, whereat we both jumped out of bed together and went to the
next room to get our brother, Captain Farquharson. RiB bedroom door had
a shaky lock which madea noile, so he had barricaded itwith a portmanteau.
While he was coming to our help, we kept our eyea fixed on our door in case
anyone should have eacaped, but we 8&W nothing, and after our all aearching
every comer of the bedroom we came to the conclUBion that no one had
been there, for everything was intact. We then queationed little Addie as
to what she had aeen and what the figure was like. She deBCribed it as that
of a lady with a ahawl on and a hat, and a veil over her face, and said that
as I spoke she had gone &Cl"QIII the foot of the bed in the aame direction that
my aister had aeen her go. This child, I must tell you, had been moat
carefully brought up by her mother, and was not allowed to read even fairy
talea for fear of having foolish ideaa in her head, which makea the thing
more remarkable, for she had certainly never heard of a ghost. I don't
know even now whether she knows anything about it, for we had to pretend
that it must have been my eldeat sister who had come in to play us a trick,
for fear of frightening her.
Then the next morning we were relating our adventurea when a ring
came to the door, and the servant said a gentleman wanted to speak to
my father. This gentleman waa a Mr. Findlay, who had married a MiM
Stewart. He came to ask when we were to leave for he knew it was
about the time, as he had received a telegram that morning to say that Milia
Stewart had died in Torquay during the night and they wanted to bring
her body to Edinburgh. We heard afterwards from friends of the Stewarts,
that the bedroom we had, had been hers. I forgot to mention that the
"The other account gave 9 as the number; but the point is wholly nnimportant.
Digitized by Google
14 Jo"rna1l!f Society fol' P'!lchical Re&eol·ch. [Aug., 1886.
child's bed lay acroBB the door of a small room which had been locked up
by the Stewarts and they had put tapes acroBB and ses.led them with black
wax.
We have none of us ever had any hallucinations either before or after
this strange aft'air.
MARIANNE MURRAY.
L.-2320.-AD pn
The following case from Dr. Campbell Morfit, of 132, Alexmdra-
road, N.W., seems to faJl into the cl&8B mentioned in our last number.
where persons are phantasmally seen or heard very soon before their
unexpected appearance in the flesh. We cannot be certs.in that this is
a. genuine telepathic type; but the cases are well worth recording.
Dr. Morfitwrites on July 4th, 1885 :-
The following narrative I now report to you for whatever of interest and
8uggestion it may be worth.
CAMPBELL MORFIT.
About the year 1853 I was engaged during 18 montlls in scientific
work for the Ordnance Department of the United States, at one of the
Arsenals; and my father's country house being conveniently near, I lived
there most of that period. The building, though one of irregular plan, had
certain constructional o.rra.ngements which made it all exceptionally
comfortable domicile, and these advantages, together with the natural
beauties of the place, inspired my fatller to distinguish it by the uncommon
name of its builder and original owner. Hence, it became known by that
designation, which, let me say for the purpose of tllis narrative, was
Metarko.
The room occupied by me, in this Ilouse, was an isolated one in wltich the
builder and original owner died some years previously, and was said to be
hawll;ed by him. His ghost, however, never showed itself to any member
of our household.
At the end of my term of residence there I lived in a city ; and several
years later, after II. period of professional duty at tile University ofMaryland,
moved to New York for the purpose of engaging in private practice as a con-
suIting chemist; and the very first client who presented himself was a
gentleman of eccentric appearance and manner,bearing the name of l\Ietarko.
Its peculiarity prompted me to ask him if he was a relative of the builder
of our family homestead, and he replied, "Yes, I am his son." This odd
coincidence interested me, but the profOBBional work which he wished me to
undertake did not promise succcBBful resulta, and therefore I declined it. He
then left but without taking away the sample of waste material which he
bad brought to me for experiment, and there it rested, obtrusively in sight,
until after several days a moment; of leisure determined me to look into it
more closely. Having subjected it to tentatives I soon found, despite first
impreBSions to the contrary, that it could be given commercial value as
required, and notified him to that effect. He responded in person, received
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] Journal of Society for P8!1cMcai Re8earch. 15
my report gratefully, and 88ked the amount of my fee, but went away wi,th-
out paying it, though he sent it in a lettera month afterwards upon the eve
.of his departure homewards, to one of the Western States.
For a time that disappearance took him entirely out of my world; but
one evening nearly two years subaequently I had been p888ing an hour or
two at a friend's, listening to some fine music. On my return in good health
and spirits I felt unusually wide awake 88 recurs to mind even at' this
moment, and in fact quite free from any susceptibility to hallucination.
Nevertheless, scarcely had I got into bed than there at the side stood
lIetarko looking 88 when he last W88 with me, but having two new features,
one a kind of excrescence on the cheek, and the other a neck-tie of striking
pattern. At first this sudden presence amused mu 88 a freak of the imagina-
tion. but became an annoyance when it would not leave on my trying to dis-
miss it. The good part done him forbade the idea that he had come to
haunt me reproachfully, yet I W88 somewhat disquieted, and 88 Diy brother
slept in a distant room upon the same floor I called to him through the open
doors of the intermediate sitting-room, without receiving any answer. The
apparition persisted, and I turned my face from it to the wall, by way of
exorcism; and a few minutesiater, seemingly, though actually, perhaps,
only seconds, found that it had vanished.
Seeking an explanation of the occurrence by reflecting upon it, I arrived
at the conclusion that Metarko had died that night at his distant home, and
the apparition W88 a psychological incident to announce the fact to me, though
for what reuon W88 beyond my imagination. The circumstances, however,
80 absorbed my thoughts all the next day, that when evening set in I felt the
need of diverting influences, and went out visiting. On re-entering about
bedtime I W88 greeted by my housekeeper with the infonnation that a
stranger gentleman had called in my absence to request that I would allow
him a consultation at 9 o'clock the following morning. His name, she said,
was on the slate, and there I found it,--to be that of Metarko !--in his
own unmistakable handwriting! ! This fact, 88tounding for the moment,
recalled, vividly, the apparition of the previous evening, so as to rerlder me
impatient for the actual interview, and when, at the appointed hour next
day he came in the flesh, profound W88 my astonishment to find him then
exactly as he appeared in the vision of 34 hours previously.
At a 1088 what to think of this concatenation of mysterious events, and
having pre-engagements for the whole day, after listening to the statement
of his case I asked him to call again in the evening upon the excuse that an
interval W88 desirable for the consideration of his busine88 confided t.o my
charge. He agreed to this arrangement, and left but did not return 88 pro-
mised; and from that moment to the present I have never seen or heard of
him. Heralded bya spectre, like itself he departed.
In answer to inquiries, Dr. Morfit write.:-
July 12th, 1885.
In reply to yours of yesterdate, the narrative sent, through Mr. Crookea,
comprises all the particulars of the incident that I can remember at this
distance from its occurrence, which is about 26 years. Doubtle88 I men-
tioned it, at the moment, to my brother and my housekeeper, but am not
poaitive. I am even unable to recollect what was the busine88 that brought
Digitized by Google
16 Jou,'/W/ qf Society for Psychical Rtsta,·ch. [Aug., 1885.
-----
Mewko to me in the second instance. But he waa an eccentricity if not a
mystery from the tint, very little known in New York, aa far aa I could
ascertain; and never informed me of his stopping place whilo there, nor yet
told me his addreu when at home. I heard subsequently, however, from
some source no" forgotten, that he then lived in Cincinnati, Ohio.
The incident noted waa tho only one of a psychical character that ever
occurred to me, and BOOn after happening it pasaed out of mind for several
years. I admit that it is lame &8 it stands, but being at least interesting, I
determined that your Society should hear of it; more particularly aa it baa
been cropping up in my reminiscences and reflections repeatedly during the
laat 10 years without inspiring a solution of its obscurities.
My brother being an unimpl'08llionable man, and not sharing my interest.
in the matter, baa forgotten, moat probably, all that I may have told him
about it at the time. But my housekeeper, a woman of considerable intelli-
gence and sympathetic nature, might remember. She waa even then.
however,20 years my senior, and if not now dead is a very old woman.
whoae whereabouts baa dropped out of my knowledge, and it would be
difficult to find her at present.
CAllPBELL MORFIT.
L.-2321.-AIl pa
The following record is very similar to the last, but has the
advantage of ha.ving been written immediately after tho occurrence.
The narrator, Colonel Bigge, of 2, Morpeth-terrace, S.W., took the
account out of a sealed envelope, in my prosence, for the tint time since
it was written.-E. G.
An account of 110 circumstance which occurred to me when quartered
at Templemore, Co. Tipperary, on 20th February, 1847.
This afternoon, about 3 o'clock p.m., I waa walking from my
quarters towards the meu-room to put some letters into the letter-box,
when I distinctly saw Lieut.-Colonel Reed. 70th Regiment, walking from
the comer of the range of buildings occupied by the officers towards the
meu-room door; and I saw him go into the passage. He waa dreued in a'
brown shooting jacket, with grey summer re8ulation tweed trousers, and
had a fishing-rod and a landing-net in his hand. Although at the time I
saw him he waa about 15 or 20 yards from me, and although anxious to.
speak to him at the moment, I did not do so, but followed him into the paa-
sage and turned into the ante-room on the left-hand side, where I expected
to find him. On opening the door, to my great surprise, he waa not there;
the only person in the room waa Quartermaater Nolan, 70th Regiment, and
I immediately asked him if he had seen the colonel, and he replied he had
not. Upon which I said, "I suppose he haa gone upstairs," and I im-
mediately Jeft the room. Thinking he might have gone upstairs to one of
the officer's rooms, I listened at the bottom of the stairs and then went up
to the first landing place ; but not hearing anything I went downstairs again
and tned to open tho bedroom door, which is opposite to the ante-room,
thinking he might have gone there ; but 1 found the door locked, &8 it
Digitized by Google
Aur·,l885.] Journal 01 Society Jor PB!/chical Research. 17
uaually is in the middle of the day. I was very much surprised at not
finding the colonel, and I walked into the barrack yard and joined
Lieutenant Caulfield, 66th Regiment, who was walking there ; and I told
the story to him, and particularly described the dress in which I had seen
the colonel. We walked up and down the barrack yard talking about it
for abou~ 10 minutes, when, to my great surprise, never having kept my
eye from the door leading to the meas-room (there is only one outlet from
it), I saw the colonel walk into the barracks through the front gate-which
is in the opposite direction-accompanied by Ensign Willington, 70th
Regiment, in precisely the same dress in which I had seen him, and with a
fiabing-rod and a landing-net in his hand. Lieutenant Caulfield and I im·
mediately walked to them, and we were joined by Lieut.-Colonel Goldie,
66th Regiment, and Captain Hartford, and I Bsked Colonel Reed if he had
not gone into the mesa-room about 10 minutes before. He replied that he
certainly had not, for that he had been out fiahing for more than two houn
at lOme ponda about a mile from the barracks, and that he had not been near
the meB8-room at all since the moming.
At the time I saw Colonel Reed going into the mesa-room I waa 1J,0t
aware that he had gone out 6ahing-a very unusual thing to do at this time
of the year; neither had 1 seen him before in the dress I have described
during that day. I had seen him in unifonn in the morning at parade,
but not afterwards at all until 3 o'clock-having been engaged m my room
writing letters, and upon other buaine88. My eyesight being very good, and
the colonel's figure and (lenera! appearance somewhat remarkable, it is
morally impoaaible that I could have mistaken any other person in the
world for him. That 1 did see him I shall continue to believe unt.il the last
day of my existence.
WILLUJI MArrHBW BIOGE,
Major, 70th Regiment.
On July 17th, 1885, before this account was taken from the envelope
and read, Colonel Bigge was good enough to dictate the following
remarks to E. G. :-
(1) I had not seen Colonel Reed for a week, having been away at Dublin.
(2) I had never seen him in that fiahing-dresa-in which he turned out
afterwards to have been. When Colonel R. got off the car, about a couple
of hours afterwards, Colonel Goldie and other officers said to me, "Why
that's the verydress you described." They had not known where he was or
how he was engaged. The month, February, was a most unlikely one to
be fiBbing in.
(3) The quartennaster, sitting at the window, would have been bound to
Me a real figure; he denied having seen anything.
(4) I have never had the slightest hallucination of the senses on any other
occasion.
(5) Colonel Reed was much alanned when told what I had seen.
There are several discrepancies in these two accounts, as is natural
enough considering the interval of time between them. Of these dis-
Digitized by Google
18 Journal oj Society lor Pagelueal ReaeareA. [Aug., 1885.
crepancies, one has no bearing at all on the evidence; it is quite unim-
portant whether Colonel Reed was seen walking in through the front gate
or getting oft'the car. Two other points in the later account alter the evi-
dence in the direction of making the incident seem slightly more marvel-
lous than it was. The fishing-dress may be taken as practically a proof
that the case was one of hallucination, and not of mistaken identity;
but had it been the case that the percipient bad not seen Colonel Reed
at all /0'1' a week, and m1..'61' in his fishing-dress, the hypothesis of a.
purely 8ubjective hallucination would be harder to maintain than it is.
when we realise that he had certainly that morning had Colonel Reed's
figure before his eyes; and had almost certainly seen him on 801M fornler
occasion in the dress of the vision. In the remaining point, on the
other hand, the later account unduly weakens the evidence for the
telepathic origin of the hallucination. It says that the interval between
the vision a.nd Colonel Reed's return was 2 hours, whereas it was
really little more than 10 minutes. Now, if there is any justification
at all for the provisional hypothesis that the sense of impending arrival
is a condition fa.vourable for the emission of a telepathic influence, it is
of importance that, at the time when the phantasmal form was seen.
Colonel Reed was not busy with his fishing, but was rapidly approach-
ing his destination. For thus the incident, at any rate, gets the benefit
of analogy with other cases.
L.-2322.-Ad pn
From Mrs. Bettany, 2, Eckington Villa, Ashbourne Grove, Dulwich.
On the evening of, I think, March 23rd, 1883, I was seized 'withan unac-
countable anxiety about a neighbour, whose name I just knew, but with
whom I was not on visiting terms. She was a lady who appeared to be in
very good health. 1 tried to shake offthe feeling, but I could not, and after
a sleepless night, in which I constantly thought of her as dying, I decided to
send a servant to the house to ask if all were well. The answer I received
was, "Mrs. T. died last night."
Her daughter afterwards told me that the mother had startled her by
saying, '" Mrs Bettany knows I shall die."
I had never felt an interest in the lady before that memorable night.
After tIle death the family left the neighbourhood, and I have not seen
any of them since.
JEANIE GWYNNE BErrANY.
My cook. to wbom I had not mentioned my presentiment, remarked to
me on th~ same morning: "I ha\'e had such" horrible dream about l\Irs.
T., I think she must be going to die."
I will get her to sign tllis.
M. WE:oiT.
Digitized by Google
Aug.,lS85.) JOIIl"llfll f!f Socief!l for P8!1ckicfll Re&earch. 19
1...-2323
The following seems a case of sporadic thought-transferen.·e :-
'From Mrs. Mainwaring, Knowles, Ardingley, Hayward's Heath.
March. 14th, 1885.
Daring the Mutiny, I was staying with a friend dreadfully ill-too ill to
be told what was going on. A baby was born, and a day or two after my
friend's wife, sitting on my bed. received a letter. I said, "You need not
read it, I know every word," and I told her. It was to say she must not
drive that afternoon to the Fort as usual, for lOme men were going to be
hanged on the road. 1 had not heard a 1t'ord of the discovery of the plot, or
of the plot, or of wh'lt was to be ; but I said every word in the letter, and I
remember my friend's face of astonishment, as ahe said, "Why how did you
know it I" It didu't seem at all odd to me.
E. L. UUNWARINO.
J'me 18th, 1885.
DEAR Sm,-In compliance with your request, I wrote to myoid friend,
but I have not had a line in reply. I do not know what can have become of
her, as it would have been very little trouble to say if she recollected the
facts I told you of. I do not like to write again, and I am lOrry, therefore,
I cannot add her testimony. If she has forgotten the affair she might as well
I&y 80, but it is possible ahe may be ill. I wish I could help you; every-
thing that seems to prove the workings of our minds without reference to
our bodies seems to me 80 full of desperate interest.
ELLEN MAL'iWARINO.
L.-2324.-AI pa
Mr. Merrifield, of 24, Vernon Terrace, Brighton, tells us that about 1865
he had a most distressing dream, in its vividness (with one exception) unlike
any other that he can recall, in which his death was foretold to him &8 about
to happen within 24 hou1'8. The impression was 80 painfully acute that he.
could not shake it off during the ensuing day ; and he actually had an
irrational feeling of relief when he woke on the second morning, a.nd
realised that the 24 hours were over. He then told the whole story to his.
wife. .. She immediately said, 'I noticed that you w..ke up the night before-
last, and I had awakened from the aame cause. I had dreamed most vividly
that I was a widow ; and the pillow was actually wet with my tea1'8. I
never had auch a vivid dream before, and it has troubled me ever since. I
would not tell you, but it was a relief to me when I saw you coming home
to dinner last night.' ..
Mrs. Merrifield adds :-" I saw my.elf dressed in weeds."
M.A.M.
Mr. Merrifield adds that this was the only occasion on wlUch either hl1
or his wife has dreamt of his death.
Digitized by Google
20 Journal qf 8ociefllfor PB.'1cllical Rf!8eQl·ch. [Aug. ]8115.
L.-I059.-AD pn
From Mn. L., a friend of Mr. Heat.:>n, Associate S.P.R.
JIItlUat'!/, 1885.
Some years ago, the writer, when recovering from an illnesa, had a re-
markable experience of "second-sight." It was thus :-
A friend had been invited to dinner, whom the writer WaB most anxious
to consult on a subject of grave anxiety. At 7 o'clock the servant came
to aBk, " If dinnershould be served or not, aB the guest had not arrived."
The writer said at once and without hesitation, "No, put off the dinner
till 8 o'clock. Mr. A. will arrive at -- Stati(\n by 7.45 train; send the
carriage there to meet him."
The writer's husband, surprised at this announcement, said, "Why did
you not tell us this before, and when did Mr. A. let you know of the
delay in his arrival 1"
The writer then explained that there had been no intimation from
Mr. A., but that aB she had been lying there, on the couch, and anxiously
hoping to lee her guest, she had had a distinct vision of him, at a certain
place (mentioning the name of the town) ; that she had seen him going over
a " House to Let" ; that, having missed the train and also the ferry, he had
CroBBed the river in a small boat and scrambled up the steep bank, tripping
in doing so, and that he had then run acroBB a ploughed field, taking up the
train at a side station, which would arrive at -- at a quarter to 8 p.m.
The writer gave all these particulars without any sort of mental effort,
and felt surprised herself at the time that they should arise to her mind and
tongue.
Presently Mr. A. arrived full of apologies, and surprised beyond meaBure
to find his friend's carriage awaiting him at the station. He then went on to
explain that he had that morning quite suddenly taken itinto his head to leave
town for --, and finding it 80 fresh and healthy a place, he had been
tempted to look over lOme houses to let, hoping to be able to get one
for a few weeks in the season; that he had lost time in doing tills, and
miSBed both train and ferry ; that he had bribed a small boat to row him
over; that in getting up the side bank, he fell, which delayed him again.
but that he had just contrived to catch the train at a siding, by running
breathleBB over a field ; that he had intended to telegraph on arriving at the
atation, but meeting the carriage there. he had felt bound to come on, to
explain and apologise, in spite of delay, and "morning dreBB," &c., &c..
From Mr. A.
16th February, 1885.
DBa MRS. L.,--Anent that Indian incident, your seeing me, and what
I WaB doing at Barrackpore one evening, you yourself boling in Calcutta at
the time.
It is now 80 long ago, 13 yoars, I think, that I cannot recall all the cir-
cumstances, but I do remember generally.
I left home one morning without the intention of going from Calcutta
during the day, but I did go from Calcutta to Barrackpore and spent lOme
time in looking through bungalows to let.
Digitized by Google
A••• 1885.] Journal of Societ!l for PlJ!lchical }J,elJearcA. 21
------
I remember I croued in a small boat-not by the ferry, and my impres-
sion is that I did not land at the usual jetty, but, instead, at the bank
cppoaite the houses which I wished to see.
I missed the train by which I would ordinarily have travelled, and con-
sequently arrived in Calcutta considerably later than your usual dinner-
hour.
I cannot remember distinctly that I found any gharry at the Barrackpore
train, Calcutta Station, but you may probably remember whether you sent
the gharry; but I do remember my asr.onishment that you had put back
dinner against my return from Barrackpore by that particular train, you
having had no previous direct knowledge of my having gone to Barrackpore
at all. .
I remember, too, your telling me generally what I had been doing at
Barrackpore, and how I had missed the earlier train. And on my inquiry,
" How on earth do you know these things 7" you said, "I saw you." Ex-
pecting me by that train I can quite understand your having sent the car-
riage for me, although that particular item is not clearly on my memory.
I can well remdmber that at the time of the incident you were in a very
.delicate state of health.
Do you remember that other occasion in Calcutta, a holiday, when Mrs.
L. called, I behag out, and on her inquiring for me your informing her that
I had gone to the bootm:l.kers and the hatters, you having had no previous
intimation from rue of any such intention on my part 7and our astonishment
and amusement when I did a little later turn up, a new hat in my hand, and
freIh from registering an order at the bootmakers 7
These have always appeared to me very extraordinary incidents, and the
tint, especially, incapable of explanation in an ordinary way.
Mrs.. L. tella Mr. Heaton that she recollects the other incident referred
to, but that she is not inclined to think it of much importance.
Mrs. L. says:-
The river crossed was the Hooghly from Serampore to Barrackpore,
where the house was situated which Mr. A. looked over. The station he
arrived at was in Calcutta, I think called the South Eastern, but of this I
am not sure.
.April 24t1i, 1885.
[I saw Mrs. L. to-day. She could not give her name-forspecial reasons,
ahe told me. She has had other similar experiences, but the details are too
indistinctly remembered for them to be of any uae.-F. P.]
L.-l002.-Ae P.
The two first of the following three dreams, are, to say the least,
curious coincidences. The third is much less striking, and by itself
would hardly be worth recording. But this third dream, together with
Mr. Phibb'. statements about his dreams generally, should be taken into
consideration in estimating the probability of there being a real con-
nection between the first two dreams and external event&.
Digitized by Google
22 Journal 01 8ociet.'I lor P8.lJcllical Re8earch. [Aug., 1885.
From Mr. E. W. Phibbs, 84, Pembroke-road, Clifton, Brist~l. The
account was written down, from Mr. Phibbs' dictation, by Mr. L. G. Fry,
Goldney House, Clifton, and was signed by Mr. Phibbs.
A.
February lOth, 1885.
On the first Monday (Bank Holiday) in August, 1883, I was staying with
my family at Ilfra.combe. About 10 p.m. I went to bed, fell asleep, was
awaked about half-past 10 by my wife coming into the room, and told her
that I had just had a dream, in which I had seen my dog .. Fox" lying
wounded and dying at the bottom of a wall. The spot and surroundings I
did not know, but the wall was one of the usual Gloucestershire dry-walla. I
a.t once inferred that he had fallen oft" the wall, he being fond of climbing.
On the following Thursday came a letter from one of my servants, left at
home, at Barton End Grange, Nailsworth, saying that Fox had not been
seen for tw:> days. On the same day I wrote to say she must make every
inquiry about the matter.
She replied on Saturday with a letter which I received on Sunday, saying
the dog had been worried by two bull-dogs on the previous Monday evening.
About a fortnight a.fterwards I returned home, ana made my inquiries
Dlost carefully, and found that about 5 o'clock on Monday a.fternoon a la.dy
had seen the two bull-dogs worrying my dog, and cruelly tearing him. A
woman near this place stated that she saw the dog about 9 p.m. dying
under a wall, which she pointed out to me, and which I had not before seen.
It was near her cottage. The next morning the dog waa not there. But I
heard from one or another that tha owner of these dogs, on his return on this
Bank Holiday, hearing what had happened, and fearing consequences, at
about 10 to 10.30 p.m., had secretly buried it, a time thus agreeing with my
dream.
E. W. PHIBBS.
FebruartJ 24tJ~, 1885.
I do not remember my husband telling me his dream till the following
morning (Tuesday).
The rest of the statement, 80 far &8 I know, is con·ect.~BSSU: PHIBBS.
B.
Febru.artJ 10th, 1885.
In 1856, living in Manchester, where I carried on the business of silk
and cotton manufacturer, I dreamed one night I saw a sheet of paper with
a written order upon it, unimportant in itself, from a llOuse which W&8 in the
daily habit of sending me orders-A. and S. Henry and Co. As I saw it, it
looked like a sheet of wet paper without any surroundings, covered with
writing. When I got to my place of busine88, about half-paat 9, my
partner, who W&8 always there before me, remarked that he had a curious
(from its insignificance) order from A. and S. Henry and Co. I said,
"Before showing it me, give me a sheet of paper," on which I wrote out
a part of the order-the upper portion-and remarked, "I can't repeat
what is below, because it is smeared in the copying-press." He looked at
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] Journal Qf Societ!llo" P81/chical Research. 23
me very much surprised, and produced the original, showing that it was
identical with my deacription.
Thinking over the matter for BOme weeks, a difficulty presented
itaeH in the thought that at the moment when I dreamed I ..
"w it the
order would be folded in an envelope and not be an open sheet. Alao, why
should the sheet appear wet 1 At last I questioned the writer of the order,
without giving him my reasons, and on asking him to describe the daily pro·
cedure of the buaineaa of writing such orders out, he answered that when
he had written a number of such orders the last thing at night he gaVl> them
to the copying clerk, who was in the unusual practice of leaving all these
orders in the copying-book in the preaa all ~ht. At the first thing the
following morning, these would be put in envelopes and distributed through
the town_ This at once explains the open and damp sheet of my dream.
E. W. PHIBBS.
The order began in the ordinary form-" Order for (500) pieces," &C.
'l'he worda written down (before seeing the actual order), contained all that
was extraordinary in it. The smeared portion only contained further
particn1ara.-E. W. PHIBBS.
Mr. Phibbs said nothing to his wife about it beforehand.
[Mr. Phibbs' partner is dead ; but the writer of the order is alive and
Mr. Fry is taking steps to find out whether lIe retains any recollection of the
incident.]
C.
Febmary 25UI, 1885.
On the night, in 1870, when the Hotel de Ville was burnt during the
Paria Commune, I dreamed that I stood in the suburbs ofa great city ill the
dark, in a damp and murky atmosphere. I saw in the distance the bleared
lights of a conflagration, and heard what I took to be the firing of cannon.
I seemed unable to get near, on account of the bad weather. When the
newspapers came out, narrsting the events of that night, they mentioned the
fact that a great thunderstorm was going on whilst the Commune was at
work. I had been strongly impreaaed with the idea that tIle light was not all
due to the confiagration nor the noise to the cannon.
This combination of the storm with the disturbances of the Commune
was the remarkable point of the coincidence.
Next morning I told my wife that I had been to Paria in the night.
E. W. l'HIBBS.
I believe the above to be correct.-JE8.'lIE PHIBBS.
Mr. Fry tella us that Mr. Phibbs was not distinctly aware, at the time
of his dream, that the city he saw was Paris.
It seeIDB that the idea of the town being Paris was an immediate
inference on waking from his recollection of the dream, but did not properly
form part of that recollection.
The inference, however, was drawn before the news of the Commune
arrived.
Digitized by Google
24 Journal qf Society for P8ychical Re8torc". [Aug., 1885.
Mr. Phibbs writes to Mr. Fry on April 8th, 1885:-
Regarding your questions about my dreams, those which I mentioned to
you were not more vivid than BOme others which were of no consequence,
but they were vivid, and on awaking I had an impreuion which amounted
to conviction that I had witr~ wh4t I had dreamed.
Perhaps I ou\tht to add that I dream frequently and vividly, but they
rarely affect me because I can discorn that whatever of revelation there may
be in thorn (and as I believe emta in aU cases in some degree) they getso
mixed up with intermixture and transposition in the act of awaking as to
make them valueleu.-E. W. PHIBBS.
L.-1063.-Ad P. (Borderland.)
The following account of a dream or Vl8lon is unfortunately at
second-hand only, the percipient being dead. We have received it from
his daughter, Miss J. Connolly, of 21, Wickham-road, New Cross, S.E.•
head mistresa of a high school for girls.
April ,tI", 1885.
One Christmas my father was invited to spend his college vacation with a.
very dear and valued friend, a Mrs. Brown. However, as he was also invited.
by my grandfather, ho preferred to accept that invitation, glad of the
opportunity of meeting my mother. The house was a large one, and full of
Christmas guesta. One night tllere was a dinner party of friends from the
neighbourhood. After dinner such a storm arose that my grandmother found
herself obliged to provide everyone with beds for the night. • . • My
grandmother, to arrange for her unexpected company, gave up the young
men's bedroom to the ladies, and turned the library into a BOrt of barrack
room for the night.
At 3 o'clock my Uncle William spoke to my father, who was sleeping
near him, and said ., James, who are you talking to ; what are you saying ,,'
My father raised hinl80lf up, looked at his watch, and replied, "I have
seen a vision. Mrs. Brown has been standing at my feet,and she said, 'Good-
bye, James! I wished greatly to seo you, to say good-bye to you before I left
this world, and I have now come to you. Serve God and be a good man.
and He will prosper and bl088 you. I have loved you BO dearly from the
time you were a boy, that I had to say good·bye. But let us meet again.' She
waved her hand and disappeared."
Both the young men were much impreued, and in the morning my father
told my grandmother of the dream or vision. She advised him to write an
ordinary letter just inquiring about Mrs. Brown and her daughtel'8. Letters
then cost tenpence, and were not written on slight occasions.
My father did write, but a letter crossed his saying, that at 3 o'clock
on the very night ofhis dream, Ml'B. Brown had died, and her last conscious
words were regrets that she had not been able to see him to say good-bye.
My father never much liked telling this story. He firmly believed he had
seen a vision. I have heard it from his lips, and I have seen the two letters
which croued each other in the post. My father was the Rev. James Camp-
bell Connolly, Chaplain of Woolwich Dockyard.
Digitized by Google
Aur., 1885.] Journal of Society flW P,ychical Re,earcn. 25
In reply to inquiries Miss Oonnolly writes on April 9th, 1885:-
(1) The two letters that Cl'Ollled in the post were among my mother'.
papers, and I have failed to find them. She died when I wall quite a child,
and I heard her tell the atory and ahow the letters, not thinking that 1 waa
liatening. My dear father died juat two yean ago in the full posaeuion of
his facultiea, and I heard it twice from hia own lipa. (2) The date is difficult.
My father married in 1840, and I ahould BaY, judging from hia ordination,
&0., that it muat have been between 1830 and 1835. Mrs. Brown'adaughters
are both dead-Mrs. Daly, who married the last Warden of Galway, and
Mrs. Foley. Both theae ladiea told me the atory. They were pruaent at
their mother'a deathbed. (3) I am certain my father deacribed the appari-
tion aa apeaking directly to him.
CORRESPONDENOE.
ON THE METHOD OF RESEARCH PURSUED BY THE SOCIETY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OP THB SOCIETY POR PsYCHICAL
RBIIBARCH.
Sm.-The Society for Psychical Reaearch having been now three yean
in exiatence it may be uaeful to consider what fruit it haa borne, and how
far it baa been aucceaaful. In auch an arduoua enterpriae aa thia-in ita
nature so occult and myaterioua-there may be great energy but amall
progreu. It ia no secret that a aeD88 of wearineaa is beginning to be felt by
many of the moat eameat members of t.he Society, and by thoae who have
had moatexperience in this region of mystery and marvela, at the merely
Aepuve and abortive reaulta at present arrived at, and at the diminishing
hopes of better resulta for the future.
Thoaa who have conducted theae reaearchea-and two or three members
are mainly reaponsible for the whole of them-will no doubt demur tothia
deacription, and may even represent that their labours have been moat
fruitful. The quantity of writing haa indeed been enormoua, almoat equal
to that of a Department of State. The correapondence haa been voluminoUB.
We are told that" over 10,000 letters were written during 1883, in the
course of the collection and verification of evidence." The number written
during 1884 waa 80mewhat 1888, but not very much 1888, and although now
the work of arranging and commenting is occupying a larger proportion of
time, from 15 to 20 letters pm" diem are atill going forth in queat of further
and better particulara. Mr. Myers apeaka (If "their writing for the fifth
time to aak for a date." He and hia colleaguea may well cry for more help,
and IXImplain of being overburdened. There is, therefore, no lack of energy,
but many of ua believe that it ia misdirected. Thare is auch a thing aa "all
action and no go," and here we have it ill perfection. For what have 11'8
sotaa the outcome of all thia interminable correapondence 1 A vaat variety
of caaea reported of phantasma of the living, of phantasma of the dead, of
apparitiona, haunted hoU888, extraordinary aounda, automatic writing,
&c., &c., with a haze of doubt resting on all of them-defecte of evidence
pointed out, but no clear judgment delivered.
Digitized by Google
26 Journal Qf 8~t!l.for P8!1chical Research. [Aug., 1885.
It will be replied that it is no fault of theirs if the evidence remains
doubtful. The errorlies in expecting conclusive and legal evidence in such
cases. In a very few instances would it be obtainable. Nor is it worth
while to invite and overhaul a vast correspondence in the hope of finding
auch cases, when much more direct, more acceaaible, and more tangible
results may be obtained by another method. Instead of evoking shadowy
reminiscences of what occurred many years ago, why not test the alleged
iutervention of the spiritual universe in occurrences of to-day 1If such things
ever occurred, why may they not occur at the present time 1And a multitude
of honest, disinterested, and intelligent persona, not in one country only,
but in many countries allege that they do occur. How is it that theee
" modem instances" are not inquired into 1 How is it that they are not
primarily resorted to for a reply to the question-Do persons who once lived
on this earth, but who now exist in the Unseen, ever communicate with ns
here by dIeam, by apparition, by ftllt and scnsible presence and contact,
by signs and wonders utterly beyond Pur mortal powers 1
There seems a perversity in selecting the more remote, ambiguous and
circuitous method of inquiry in preference to the immediate, the more direct
and definite method of procedure. The question of the reality or the delusion
of " spiritual agency" is presented in a much more manageable shape in
aaaerted instances of to-day than in stories of wl18.t occurred 20 or more years
ago, where the agents are dead or inacceaaible, and where there is no power
of croaa-tlxamination. In one word, a definite conclusion arrived at as to
the pretensions of Mr. Eglinton would be much more valuable than the
heap of doubtful casel, and more doubtful comments, which we find in the
Prouediltg. of your Society.
It would seem as if the " cases" were chiefly valued for the sake of the
comment, and as if the principal aim of the Society was to invent theories,
and not to investigate facta. Two such theories are presented to us as
covering all the cases of reported spiritual agency. "Telepathy" is Olle, and
" Unconscious ccrebratil'll" is the other. The former is really ollly the
invention of a term or phrase, f01' there i8 undeniable evidence of the fact.
There is no attempt InBde to solve the mystery, or to explain the modus
optmndi of this power. But it is brought forward in order to show that
.. spiritual agency" need not be resorted to to account for any of these
caaes ; in the hope, indeed, of excluding the thought of it. If there be such a
power it must clearly be of an electrical or magnetic kind. And if so, it is
much more credible, or in other worda, le8a my8terious if wielded by
" a spirit" than by a mortal, A 8pirit'8 mode of existence, and more rcfined
vehicle of consciousneaa muat be more favourable to the exertion of tele·
pathic influence than the coarser organs and tiaaues of mortality. :&Iust we
not conceive it in the case of the former to act at. much longer distances 1
Yet Mr. Myers propounds it as an easy and all-sufficient solution of
mY8terious cases, though all the while he is talking about he know8 not
what, for he muat acknowledge that his mind ia in a state of profound dark-
neaa as to the mod".. operandi, Nevertheleaalle extends this power, at his
arbitrary will, to any case wherein it appears neceaaary to exclude the inter-
vention of " a apirit."
'Ve may observe the Bame proceaa in the case of "Cerebration." That;
Digitized by Google
Aug., 18S5.] Journal Qf Society for P8ychical Resem·ch. 21
also has been wan~nly and gratuioously ~nlarged until, in Mr. Myers' handa,
it threatens ~ annihilate all moral responsibility, and, if it be true, ~ render
the administration of justice a mere haphazard affair. A crime might after
all be only a case of "unconscious cerebration." He has raised Dr.
Carpenter's theory ~ a higher and most dangerous power. So in regard to
telepathy he naively remarks that he has only raised what all admit 00 be
true in some small extent "~a higher power." It w(;uld be just as good
an argument 00 assert that man has the power of flying, if he would only
exert it, for that ~ suppose him to have that power is only raising his
acknowledged faculty of locomotion "~ a higher power." This is not
llCience, either physical or metaphysical; it is mere and wan~n assumption,
adopted for convenience sake, and prompted by a predetennination, however
nnconscious, ~ exclude spirit agency at all hazards. Anything is ~ be
believed, anything is ~ be assumed rather than that. Telepathy is much
more credible in the case of a spirit and a mortal, than between two mortals.
I will defy Mr. Myers ~ controvert that argument. Is it not certain that a
spirit can administer "the telepathic impact" more readily and powerfully
than a mere mortal •• clad in this Dl uddy vesture of decay" 1
Let any ono run through the cases presented in the pagElS of tho Jo"rnal,
and note the comments on them, and he will find that in nearly e\'ery case
the evidence is reported as defective-that further particulars, dates, fuller
detaila and more corroborative testimony is required. One ingenious gentle-
man s~ests that" the antecedents of the servants" who reported a case
ought to be investigated. They pursue the inquiry like a firm of solici~rs
preparing a case for a trial. Mr. Myers complains that the evidence is Vf'Ty
far indeed from reaching the point which will satisfy science. But he 111
lI&IlgUine that, by accumulating more cases and more and further testimony,
this point will at last be reached. He will then triumphantly adduce his
cases and be aUle ~ exclaim, "Find a. flaw in this evidence if you can ! "
Our physical scientists would laugh at this as childish bravado. They
would coolly reply, "We know the laws of the physical universe-the only
universe which we have any knowledge ofl or believe, and we know that
your reported marvels are clean contrary to those laws; therefore we know
in advance that the things you allege are impossible, and that you are the
victims of delusion. Therefore, we scorn your evidence, and will not waste
our time in examining it." Such is the reply of physical science, of which
the delegates of the Society are in such murtal terror,and which they are vainly
attempting ~ propitiate. 'l'rue Spiritualists view the visible universe as the
universe of cjfectiJ, and believe that beyond it, and inside of it, is the unseen
universe of cames, and that the latter sometimes flows in~ the former and
controls it by finer elements and agoncies; even as the mind, working by
faith, sometimes dominates tlle mortal body and changes its working. You
cannot compel assent by sheer force of evidence. The mind must first
accept principles, and be guided by them. Hence this accumulation of more
cases and ampler detaila, and this ransacking narratives of long past timAs,
is all labour in vain and will never produce conviction.
But why take such pains ~ rummage out cases in auld lang syne, when
equal and far greater wonders are said by respectable witnesses to be at tills
day occurring among us in lavish abundance '/ The cases are more decisive,
gitized by (.oogI
28 JOllrnal qf &ciet!/ lor P8!/cMcal Re8earch. [AUIl.,1885.
the evidence that of eye-witnesaea and easily come-at-able, and every point is
open to investigation. To adopt the other mode of tJ.-eatment is unnatural
and perverse. There is a latent motive; an arriere ptMU to account for this
preference of the obscure and remote, and this neglect of the present and
the near.
Thp Society sends an en\"oy to India to investigate the question of the
Mahatmas and of Madame Blavatsky, but acantily notices or alurs over the
case of Mr. Eglinton in Loudon! Anything more ftippant than the conduct
they pursued in their first encounter with him cannot be' imagined. They
would not give him a fa.ir chance. Pleading a negative result at the first
few trials, they gave him up. It looksas if they were eager to find a pretext
for abandoning him, leat subsequent s,*,nces might prove more fruitful. In
the Juurna}" however, of May last, we find an account of a eance with Mr.
Eglinton, sent by a gentleman-propria motu as it appears-" wham," they
say, "we have reason to regard as an acute and careful observer." And
that report is most favourable as recording a positive result. Two numbers
of the Juunl4l have since appeared, and I, and doubtlOll many others,
expected a cc.mment on the above. But none has appeared!! They are
forward to offer comments on reported cases of dreams and apparitions and
haunted houses of 20 years ago, but not a word have they to remark on this
marvel occurring to-day in the heart of London! Do they intend to follow
it up, having received so great an encouragement, by further experiments 'I
No such intention is announced, and it seems too probable that Mr.
Eglinton is once more dropped. They seem apprehensive that their verdict
might be called for, and they are determined not to give it. Meanwhile they
prefer to occupy themselves with Madame Blavatsky and her trickeries,
and to prosecute their researches in the remote Indies. Why do they not
-send envoys to America, and investigate the alleged wonders there 1
There is, however, quite enough to interest and engage them at home,
if their hearts are in the cause. Why do they not investigate the case of
Mr. Barkas, of Newcaatle 1 He is a credible witneaa-the people of New-
castle knoN him well; his antecedents would aatisfy even Mr. Davies. Now
I want to know why the Barkas case and the source of the replies made
by an indifferently educated person to the abstruse questions propounded. &8
recorded in the columns of Light, is not thoroughly and exhaustively
examined. I suspect that a similar motive rules here as in the Eglinton
case. Is it not, at all events, apparent that the Society is evading
difficulties, not meeting them 1
Then there is the Wyld·Husk case, for which the Society has found no
adequate solution, either in the way of fraud or of reality.
Nor is the Morell Tlleobald case--pace Mr. Podmore-at all satisfactorily
accounted for, nor a genuine endeavour made to do it. If there is fraud or
lying in the case, why not track it home 1 or why feel any compunction in
exposing it 1
There are, moreover, the instances, credibly attested, of the mysterious
movements of tables and other pieces of furniture-of the playing of bells,
pianos, and other musical instruments, by invisible perfonners-all these
await investigation, and either continnation or exposure. Why rummage the
past, while all these things are reported as occurring to-day 1
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.J Journal oj 8ociet!/ /t»' PBgchieal Re8earcn. 29
Let it be borne in mind that these cues, in whatever way adjudicated
upon, retlect light upon the past. If wonders are proved to occur flOle,
they mighthave occurred then.
If, on the other hand, they are disproved now, in spite of plausible
evidence and sincere believers, then a strong doubt resta upon all such
narratives in the past, however attested. For the witneaaes are neither as
well known, nor can they be questioned as present ones can.
Here then, in our very midst, and at the present hour, is the fruitful
field on which 10 many of us wish the Society to expend ita tlnergies. Let
them rest awhile from speculations on "the telepathic impact," and their
endeavours to raise it to a. higher power, and tum their a.ttention to these
nearer and more 101ubie problems. Let Mr. Myers paUle in his efforts to
establish the complete duality of the lOul of man, and ita separation into
conacious and unconscious spheres-the latter of these irresponsible-and let
him addreaa himself to the cases I have mentioned. Let us have facta first,
and theones afterwards.
G. D. HA.UGHTON.
To 1M Editor oj tile JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
Sm,-Sincc my name occurs repeatedly in Mr. Haughton's letter, which
you have shown to me before ita insertion in the JOHnlal, you will, perhaps,
allow me to make some reply to such part of it as concerns myself and lily
friends on the Literary Committee. The old Committee on Physical
Phenomena will, doubtleaa, answer for themselves, and I must confeaa that
I to lOme extent share Mr. Haughton's curiosity lUI to the exact explanation
which they may give of their prolonged silence. The fact of their non-
presentation of any Report has several times been alluded to with disappoint-
ment at meetings of the Council, and lOme of us might have ventured on
more direct appeal to thom had we not shrunk from putting preaaure on a
committee of volunteers engaged in a field of inquiry which, as I know from
experience, is a very toillOme one ; and also from appearing to bring into
contrasted relief the activity of the Committee of which Mr. Gurney and
myself have the honour to be secretaries. Mr. Haughton has brought that
contrast into view; but he seems to draw the inference that the sight of our
Committee working vigorously at ita own tasks has actually preuflua other
Committees from prosecuting their•• We could scarcely have anticipated this
J'8IIult, which seems depreaaingly at variance with the usual teaching of
moralista as to the force of example.
.As to my own relation to Spiritualism, I shall have IOmething to say
further on. But I shallbelt consult the reader's convenience by taking lOme
of Mr. Haughton's topics in order.
Mr. Haughton makes various strictureson the cases of apparitions, &c.,
which we have collected, and on our treatment of them, which strictures I
find lOme little difficulty in hannonising.Firat, he complains that we present.
vast variety of cases," but deliver" no clear judgmentj" then that the cases
" are chiell.y valued for the sake of the comment." He smiles at our " in-
terminable correspondence in the collection of evidence," yet adds that " it
'Would seem as if the principal aim of the Society was to invent theories and
not to investigate facta." He points out the evidential weuneaa of remote
caaea (aaauming, whah little attention will show to be a mistake, that our
Digitized by Google
30 Joltl'lIal qf Societ.1f for Psychical Be8fflrch. [July, 188.'1.
caleS are u8Uul'y remote ones), yet at the IlAme time he seems to think that
we ought not ourselves to indicate what toe think weak points in the evidence
which we collect. "They purs~e the inquiry," he exclaims, "like a finn
of solicitors preparing a case for a trial." 1cannot help being pleased that
we produce this impre88ion, at any rate, on one critic's mind, inasmuch as
the last letter of criticism which I had occasion to answer in this Journal (in
May last), was actually from a solicitor, who objected, in effect, that we did
not pursue the inquiry in a way which his firm would consider as 8ufficiently
Itringent.
I gather, however, that Mr. Haughton'8 real objection is to our use of
the theory of telepathy, of a tnn&ference of impressioJl8 from one mind
to another without the agency of the recognised organs of 8ense. Not
that he disputes the fact of lIuch transference, of which he lII\y8 that there is
"undeniable evidence," but he seems (if I may 110 IlAY)to grudge our wasting
good telepathy on mere mortal minds, instead of using it to demonstrate
the influence of spiritual beinga.
"A spirit's mode of existence and more refined vtlhicle of consciousness
must be more favourable," he sayll, " to the exertions of telepathic influence
than the coarser OrgaDB and tiBBue8 of mortality. Telepathy is much more
po88ible in the case of a spirit and a mortal ~han between two mortals. I will
defy Mr. Myers to contro"ert that argument."
As it so happens that I have already said something "ery like this myself
in print, I am happy to join Mr. Haughton in defying, not myself only, but.
the whole world, to controvert it.
In a Report written by Mr. Gurney and mYllelf, Proceeding. VI., p. 184,
these words will be found.
" We have found [in diacu88ing certain e"idence] no need to postulate
the existence of any intelligences except human minds, and human minds,
not in hell or heaven, but on earth as we know them. But nevertheleBB,
if other intelligent beings besidell those visible to us do in fact exist-if
man'lI own soulllurvives the tomb-then, no doubt, our telepathic experi-
ments or our collected casell of apparitions, interpret.ed as we interpret them,
do suggest analogies of influence, modes of operation, which (it is hardly too
much too say) would throw a quite novel light over the long controversy
between Science and Faith. It is only in lIome form of idealism that that.
controversy can find a close."
I am far, indeed, from complaining that Mr. Haughton has not remem-
bered this paBBage. It is only natural that on seeing the too frequently
recurring namell of MeIIIIrB. Gurney and Myers at the bottom of an article, he
IIhould exclaim T01tjours perdl'ix I and pass on to the next. But I think
that the reader will lIee that, allowing for what I may call the 8uperior
decisivenesll of Mr. Haughton's style, our words and his expre88 much the
same conviction; namely, that this supernormal transmiBBion of thought
may naturally be supposed to be facilitsted by the conditions of 8piritual,
as opJiosed to carnal, existence. The main difference is that we still
feel bound to speak of communication with spiritual existences in a hypo-
thetical tone ; thougb we almost go out of our way to assert that if we
should be fortunate enough to attain conviction on the point as to which
Mr. Haughton is already convinced, we should at once draw the very
corollary which he defies us to controvert.
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1885.] Journal of SOCiet!l101" Psychical Research. 31
It cannot, however, be said that Mr. Haughton ignorea the fact that the
majority of aamnu at !,resent deny that this crucial point baa actually been
proved. On the contrary he represents .. the reply of physical science" a
consisting of such remarks as "We scorn your evidence and will not waste
time in examining it." I am sorty if any IGmnt, have spoken in this tone
to Mr. Haughton or his friends, and if my own experience baa been leu
disagreeable, I am inclined to refer this to the leu lofty air which 1 have felt
justified in taking towards men whom I regard-not, I hope, with" mortal
terror," as Mr. Haughton suggests,-but with a reapectand admiration which
make me feel that if (as is the CaBe) I believe in certain marvellous things
which many men with more knowledge and sagacity than I can boast treat
aa mere figments and delusions, it behoves me at any rate to be moderate in
stating my novel views, and to take all poBBible pains to justify and support
them. Considering that in Cambridge alone a past and a present Prof8880r
of Experimental Physics, a Profe880r of Astronomy, and a Profeuor of
Anatomy have already joined our Society, I hardly feel tempted to change
my style to the more .. triumphant" phraseology which Mr. Haughton puts
into my mouth, with the kind warning that .. our physical scientisr.s would
laugh at this as childish bravado."
But, putting controversy aside, let me say at once that I heartily concur
with Mr. Haughton in desiring an immediate and thorough investigation by
members of our Society of any Spiritualistic phenomena which may be
acceuible to us. Let us see what specific lines of inquiry he suggests :-
(1) The automatic writing of an indifferently-educated person (otherwise
known as Mrs. Esperance), said to be inspired by" Humnur Stafford," and
recorded by Mr. Barkas. I havo known Mr. Barkas since January, 1875,
and through his introduction sat with this mediwn on October 16th, 17th,
and 18th, 1875. I have also studied all her printed answers. I consider
the case curious and interesting, and I am not surprised at Mr. Barkas' view
of it, but unfortunately the grou want of comprehension of the subjects
inquired about, and the palpable blunders which the replies contain, seem to
me to preclude us from regarding the case as affording evidence of the
guidance of a scientific spirit.
The fact, moreover, that the same medium, under the name of Mrs.
Esperance, was afterwards detected in personating a materialised spirit,
tended to discourage me from seeking further evidence through that
channel.
(2) The ring on Mr. Husk's arm, which Dr. Wyld considers as a con-
elusive proof of spirit agency, has heen examined by two committees of our
Society. The first of these reported unfavourably ; but as it was then urged
that this Committee was lJOt strong enough, a second was appointed, including
Mr. Crookes, Mr. Victor Horsley, the well-known surgeon, and other men
of scientific training. Their Report is to appear, I believe, in the next
number of our Procuding., having been delayed by the Committee's desire
to make it as complete as might be, and to support it, if poBBible, by actual
surgical experiments.
(3) The CaBe of Mr. Morell Theobald. I quite agree with Mr. Haughton
that some further investigation of this case is to be desired. Mr. Theobald
kindly offered to allow some delegate of our Society to join his circle, .. if
Digitized by Google
32 Journal qf Societ!/ for P8ychical Researcn. [Au,., 1885.
the spiriu. would allow it " ; but this condition does not as yet seem to have
been fulfilled. We can, therefore, do nothing more in the matter at
present.
(4) "Cases of movemenu. of tables, ringing of bella by invisible per-
formers," &C. Where are these cases to be found, actually going on 1 If
only Mr. Haughton will let me know, I, for one, will grudge no trouble to
see and investigate them. \Ve cannot hear ofany such; will not those who
may be more fortunate help us 1
(5) Mr. Eglinton. As for myself, I have sat with Mr. Eglinton at
intervals since 1875 or earlier; thp first seance of which I can find a noto at
this moment being on April 25th, 1875. I have never got any noteworthy
phenomena with him except on the very last occasion on which I sat, viz.,
at Cambridge on June 3rd, 1885. On one other occasion,February 16th,1885,
a very striking phenomenon occurred, but unfortunately I was requested to
leave the room immediately before it. Without expressing any doubt as to
the genuineness of this phenomenon, I feel that my absence from the room
would prevent my description of it from carrying weight. I hope to continue
sitting with Mr. Eglinton whenever occasion offers, but I do not seem to be
the best possible person for that particular task.
Mr. Gurney baa sat nine or ten times with Mr. Eglinton, and baa, I
belie\-e, obtained some interesting though inconclusive phenomena. Othera
of my friends have sat repeatedly; but some member of the Committee on
Physical Phenomena may be able to give fuller details.
My letter is already too long, but I am obliged to add one more point.
Mr. Haughton complains of " a latent moth-e, an arriere peflaU," .. a pre-
determination," apparently on my part especially, "to exclude spirit
agency."
Now, I have already said in Light, -in very explicit terms, that I have no
su~h arTiere pemU, no such predetennination. And I may here add that I
have for many years regarded the prublems involved in Spiritualism as of
the very highest importance; and that in joining the Society for Psychical
Research I was actuated in great measure by my hope that I should
thus gain some opportunities of witnessing phenomena of this kind obtained
in private circles, without the presenco of a paid medium. Interesting
though the other branches of our work may be, any phenomenon which
authentically proved the intervention of the spirits of tlle dead
would, to my mind, far surpass in interest the "telepathy" and "unconscious
cerebration" to which Mr. Haughton supposes me to be so closely wedded.
But I can only say, in Mr. Haughton's own words, "Let us have facts
:first, and theorios afterwards." Before we venture to utter an opinion on a
topic so difficult and momentous let us have more, much more, of compe-
tent observation and careful oxperiment. Once again I repeat the earnest
appeal which I have already made both in Light and in our Procuaiflg3 to
the Spiritualistic world-to suggest to us the means, to offer to us t.he
opportunities, of attaining those assured convictions on this great matter
which should surely inspire those who already hold them with a zealous
readine88 to labour for their wider diffusion among open-minded men.
I am, sir, &c.,
FREDERIC W. H. MYIUI8_
gitized by (.oogI
