{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1farrah_nde.html","mytitle":"Farrah NDE 7439","mylang":"de"}
          	        Farrah NDE 7439  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Farrah NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3789 Farrah NDE 7439  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was home alone. There was a loud bang, lightning and blackness, and then a big terrifying SILENCE.  

I was no longer home; I was safe, free in light traveling somewhere unknown. It was bright and warm.  I felt loved ones were present. I admit, at the time, it felt like I was moving in joy and peace, both emotional and physical.  I was escorted and cradled by loved ones who had passed me and were whispering. A stronger sound came from the rest. It was either a VERY close family member or a loving influence giving me a path option. I could choose the light or return to my body. 

I awoke to darkness a LOUD ringing then SEARING PAIN. I placed my hands on my battered head and waited. I later was able to call my mother and get help

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt.  Other:  GSW to head/ brain   Gunshot wound to my head. Bullet and shrapnel still lodged in face and brain.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The people/ spirit who were present. I saw a light and darkness that was unearthly: Beyond my mind's creation.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The first silence then the light. HIGH Awareness. Then the Painful ringing. High awareness of my choices.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     For most of it there was no sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was depressed. I have a life-threatening illness with moments of remission. I was not in remission at the time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was an important destination. Another doorway I think.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings were on a spiritual level. Something I believe humans can not possess alive.

The experience included:       Boundary

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was not at home where I began.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt joy, sorrow, love, freedom, responsibility, painlessness.  It was indescribable

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came to a conscience-free decision given by someone beyond my plane of existence. It was a choice to live my life all the pain, love, grief happiness knowing I would live in a sort of mental peace. To will endure: or follow on, pass on and be free of pain, and sadness.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Very progressive Catholic. Studied many religious faiths as an optional field of study in college.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more open.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The consistency relied in the higher being.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard voices of familiarity.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I felt that there was an attachment of others to. You interpret as you wish.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     It does exist. Weather tis God Buddha Allah a friend I believe what one person thinks is god may be another's interpreted as Dad.  THERE IS SOMETHING GUIDING US.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I don't remember.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Yes     Without a doubt.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Perhaps. I feel as if I was aware of something else but I could not say anymore.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     If I choose to live I have to know I will experience all life's ups and downs, but I was placed here for a purpose. I will bring joy and meaning somehow.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. This has altered my view on life. I am no longer suicidal. I believe my life is stronger. I have become more sensitive to people and places.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel a bit mystified: My empathy for others as well as strong feelings in some places.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of it. I was a skeptic.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience was real. I don't need the support of anyone else to know it changed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1farrah_nde.html