{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1farnaz_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Farnaz R Possible NDE 7937","mylang":"de"}
          	        Farnaz R Possible NDE 7937  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Farnaz R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4145 Farnaz R Possible NDE 7937  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the end of my monthly period. It had just finished and I went to take a shower. My head was very dizzy, so much so that whenever I closed my eyes I felt like I am spinning. Without saying any thing to the family I went into a room which was cold and dark and slept on a tall pillow. I felt my hands and legs are getting colder. I was unable to lift my hands or call someone and felt like something heavy is on my chest. Until I felt that someone is squeezing my head hard, like two big weights are squashing my head. I was unable to free myself and could hear very loud sounds in my ears so much that I felt my head is about to explode. The sounds didn’t come from outside and were hard to bear.

Suddenly I felt I am traveling with a very high speed up into a tunnel that had orange and yellow color. At the end of the tunnel there was a white light. As I ascended through the tunnel, my speed kept increasing and I could hear a sound. After all these years I can still remember that sound which raises the hair on my skin from the fear. It sounded something like a clock ticking. The faster I travelled, the louder the sound became. I was feeling utter loneliness, the feeling that I won’t see my parents anymore and everything ended so easily. Fear that I don’t know where I am going. I asked God with my whole existence to please return me. I felt I was thrown back into my body but came back to consciousness gradually and sat up.

I dragged myself to the kitchen and drunk some water and started to feel better. I could not sleep shot my eyes for three nights from the fear. I could not even talk about it. After a few years I read about NDEs in a magazine and got scared when I realized I had gone to the edge of dying. After that some stuff were happening to me, but it was not NDE, it was harassment from some entities.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  سال ۸۶

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         فک میکنم افت فشار بیش از حد  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I think sudden and severe drop of blood pressure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      نNeither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was not much different, but I could think simultaneously about everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before I felt dizzy in my head

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Faster

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think it was not much different.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I feel the hearing becomes very acute, and you hear horrendous sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     An orange colored revolving tunnel, with a light at the end.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I had a feeling of a strange place in the tunnel, a place of which I was afraid.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feeling of loneliness, feeling that I have no body and am being separated from my loved ones.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I was not brave enough to go, and asked God to return me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A few years later, I researched and thought more about it and got more into religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don’t know if my experience was real death or not. But it is true that death happens unexpectedly and takes us suddenly. In my religion it is stressed a lot to think about death. But it is said that an angel will come to take your soul, but I didn’t see such a thing. Maybe it was not real death.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became more religious a few years later.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love for my parents who didn’t let me go.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Maybe I was fooling myself that this was just a nightmare, although I knew it was even more real than my normal daily life. But I was trying to forget it. I thought about it more deeply later, and analyzed it and studied it. It caused me to become more religious and not to be too greedy and don’t complain about life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot describe those sounds and the pressure I was feeling. They don’t exist normally.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was having strange dreams and there were creatures that harassed me and had entered into my life. Later I realized how to fight them. Also, similar experiences….

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One year later I told my mom and she said it must have been just a nightmare and don’t take it seriously. 3 years later, I read about a similar experience in a magazine. I told my story later to some of my friends who thought I have some special power and were amazed and suggested that I talk to a religious authority about my experience and dreams.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      Since there was no one to explain what happened to me, I just tried to forget it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definately not real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Some creatures harassed me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1farnaz_r_possible_nde.html