{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fanny_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Fanny B Probable NDE 3711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fanny B Probable NDE 3711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fanny B Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1706 Fanny B Probable NDE 3711  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was the third day after I have my womb cut. It was during the night. I was suffering a lot, it was hurting so much and I was worrying so much about my young kids at home. After a long, long strangling (can't tell the time), I started to feel my body was weighing very light, so light and finally comfortable, and then not the same as most people say that their soul comes out from their head. I felt my soul (I don't know what word I can use for this) just rising up from my body, horizontally, or from the belly, something like that. Then, it's just like most people's feeling, so peaceful, so grateful and my body or my soul had no weight at all. I was in the middle of nowhere, I could see all around me in the same time, 360 degrees.

The whole room was lit by a kind of light bright but not hurting, there was no corner, no shadow, and the light seems to be peace, happiness and so on. Then I saw, or I felt because I can't tell if I saw with my eyes or with my soul, I heard with my ears or with my soul. The nurse who took care of me came in for the daily check.  She talked to me. I thought I answered but she seemed not to hear. After the daily check, she then ran to fetch the nurse chief of the night, and then the doctor. They worried a lot though I tried to tell them I was fine, I never had been so fine. It seemed no one heard.  They gave me medication. I can't tell how long after, all a sudden I felt my soul fall down heavily into my body and all the suffering came back at the same time. It was so strange; in the same moment, the nurse complained that I frightened them and so on. I couldn't say a word. I was so confused. I never heard about NDEs at that time.

Unluckily on the next day, no nurse, no doctor was willing to answer my questions. It took time for me to make my husband understand it was not a dream nor because of the medication. It was almost twenty years ago. I remember it as if it's yesterday. And my life change a lot ever since then, I think my person changed. I am a believer but can't tell what religion and I don't think it's necessary to have one.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Other 3 days after a surgery

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All through the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All through the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Sorry, I can't really tell in words, I wonder if I was too happy to find myself so well and surprised by the sudden change.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I wrote in before, I saw things in 360 degrees I suppose, if it's the right word. Because it seemed I saw everything in the same time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I didn't see really a light but I found myself completely in a light which is not the kind of light we used to see but the kind of living light, it seemed to be alive.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very comfortable, very calm, peaceful, worry about nothing, nobody.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have more faith but not to any specific religion.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have more faith but not to any specific religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   It seemed I was more philosophical - don't know if it's the right word, more understanding.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became more calm, forgiveness, much more hardworking and very studious.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The feeling, it's just hard to make people understand how well and peaceful I was. Sense of gratefulness and even myself I can't tell if I saw things with my eyes or I sensed them, I heard things or just felt them and so on.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many, I got to understand very well French books better than my family which is their mother tongue. I learn things easier than before and I healed my health problem myself with massage, which I discovered after the experience. And I heal other people and I even have many strange experiences like I did an exorcism on someone unexpectedly and so on.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the peaceful feeling, the comfort and gratefulness. Indeed I would like to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    With my husband at the beginning but he didn't believe it till the media talked about this. And only after many, many years I started to tell my sister, and my sister-in-law, and then to people who want to know.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Something or someone was trying to keep me away from the suffering, but I needed to continue my life for a reason I don't know.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because my life changed so much! I'm not afraid of death and knowing where I'll go later.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Once when I was in bed, I felt my soul flew across the valley where I was. I feel each time the present of people I know who just passed away.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Is there any negative feeling? What has changed in people's lives after the experience?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fanny_b_probable_nde.html