{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fabio_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Dr. F\u00e1bio Probable NDE 9514","mylang":"de"}
          	        Dr. Fábio Probable NDE 9514  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Dr. Fábio Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5129 Dr. Fábio Probable NDE 9514  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

      It was an ordinary day and I retired to bed at night as usual. At the crack of dawn, I thought a near-death dream had occurred.  

  Instantly, I saw myself between two higher beings and an uncle who had died only a few months prior. The four of us were in an environment different from anything I'd ever seen or venture to recall. We were standing upon a circular platform with little dark pebbles sealed with a sort of brown mortar. In the middle of this platform there was a smaller circular platform raised about a foot higher (30 cm) and some six feet (2 m) in diameter, perhaps like a raised step or a podium. This smaller circular platform in the middle determined the distance which we kept from each other. The larger circular platform where we stood had to have some 13 feet (4 m) in diameter, in such a way that we were comfortable standing on it along with the raised smaller circular platform in the center. On the edge of the circle that comprised of the smaller platform, there didn't even seem to be a discernable step but rather an intensely bright light which for some reason did not cause my eyes to squint as expected. It was as if we were in the middle of a radiant pool of white light. Strangely that peculiar scene inspired no fearful concerns, wary qualms nor doubt. It was as though it were not even possible to form any value judgment about a possibly inhospitable environment. Looking around, above the scintillating bright white light there was golden glow that seemed to traverse the entire horizon, a light that also did not sting. It was not possible to figure out the ambient temperature, humidity, nor any odor. Yet in spite of being confronted with the , I felt serene.  

  As far as the passage of time was concerned, it seemed to me that I remained there for several hours in which various knowings were telepathically passed on through these higher beings, and a human language through my deceased uncle. I will speak more on this subsequently. Now I will describe the beings that I felt and saw.  

  The two heavenly beings were imposing, with a stature a bit taller than the average person. I'd wager that they were around 7' feet tall (2.15 m) to my uncle's 5' 6" (1.7 m) who seemed diminutive next to them.   

  The first higher being, I recognized as Archangel Michael. He had a fit frame, healthy with smooth neck-length dirty-blonde hair and hazel eyes. He wore a kind of Greek tunic with a fabric like Kevlar military attire, with light chardonnay coloring and detailing in white. In the region of the large joints, it had small protective coverings seemingly made of a coppery material. His feet were also covered with copper-toned footwear. In his left hand, he wielded a copper-colored sword which at times became enflamed, and his right hand showed an outstretched palm where one could see beneath the alabaster skin where there would ordinarily be blood vessels, instead of the typical blue it was greenish. I could not perceive thoracic breath-like movements, and although his countenance had lips betraying a discernible smile, he conveyed all communications through telepathy, in which he discreetly moved his right hand.  

  The second higher being, I recognized as Archangel Raphael. He had a fit frame, healthy and wavy chestnut shoulder-length hair, with the left eye dark brown and right eye bluish-grey. His flesh was also pale marble-white but with a caramel hue. He also wore a type of Greek tunic--but long--similar to that of Greek philosophers of olden times. The color was light yellow with black accenting. In his right hand, he carried a staff wrought of weathered wood, which looked extremely aged. In his left hand he carried a transparent amphora in which it was possible to peer through it and see a flame within. Although some readers may envision a lantern, for some reason I cannot explain the round shape that had a crystalline sphere that pointed to another object altogether. Due to the tunic being floor-length, I could not see his feet and his skin did not feature the kind of greenish blood vessels of the other being. Most of the time, this one also communicated via telepathy, seemingly to be in agreement with the other being.  

  My uncle, in contrast, wore linen clothing that had a pleasing scarlet-green. The shirt and trousers had a dashing cut and perfect fit. My uncle was barefoot, and he communicated with me and the other beings through plain words. I was quite happy to see him, as he seemed to be at peace, speaking with a soft voice and radiating confidence.  

  I do not remember everything they said to me or conveyed through images, so this account at best can only be incomplete.   

  The first being to communicate with me telepathically was Archangel Michael. He informed me that my earth mission had concluded and that the celestial beings were pleased to receive me. They recognized in me a person who made a solid effort to follow the teachings of Christ, and who gave to other people as much as he could. With gusto, they recalled pivotal moments in my life when I was tempted by Satan and his minions, but I had resisted by paying the price of choosing a more difficult earthly path. Some of those episodes I prefer not to delve into here, as they involve other people who in some form or another tried to bribe or manipulate me, and if I reported them I could now suffer legal repercussions or even imprisonment in the authoritarian state that Brazil is fast becoming. They reviewed moments in my life where heavenly intervention took place and which up until then I considered only strange and odd situations... such as in infancy when I manifested symptoms deemed to be childhood cancer like lymph nodes, weight loss, anemia... inexplicable for months, which vanished completely without any specific treatment nor diagnosis.  

  After Archangel Michael accounted for these facts related to my life story, and Archangel Raphael expressed minor comments, it was Archangel Raphael's turn to telepathically speak.  

  He spoke of the future of my family and my country. Unfortunately, the news about my country was horrible. A period of tribulations would begin soon enough, with many conflicts and deaths of innocents. A popular uprising would lead to civil war by the end of the decade, with extreme suffering in store for the followers of Christ, [the uprising] of which would probably be defeated by the installation of a bloodthirsty dictatorship for many years. And in the middle of it all would be my wife and son. I felt a despair knowing that my son would grow up in an emotionally unhealthy environment. I felt profound pain from envisioning the suffering that my son would face. Toward the end, Archangel Raphael drew a breath: future generations would restore peace again--only a brief period for celestial beings, but it would be quite a protracted period for human beings. I felt besieged with great anguish and desperation, a deep sense of helplessness and frustration.  

  While I wept bitterly my uncle embraced me and tried to console me. He told me that in 2023, another family member would join us. I do not know if it was for my upset emotional state or for divine providence, I now can't seem to remember who it is.  

  In tears, I begged the higher beings to send me back to my life; my wife and son needed me more than ever, in view of what they revealed to me about the future. Archangel Michael warned me that in returning I would live through all that suffering with them, an enormous ordeal I could bypass by joining my uncle. Archangel Raphael explained that having already completed my earthly mission, in order to return I would be entrusted with a new mission revealed over time. He was taken aback in respect for my willingness to return out of sheer love for my wife and for my son.   

  I bid farewell to my uncle, who assured me of the total wellbeing of other relatives [who had already crossed over] and that they would all completely understand my choice to postpone my reunion with them. He embraced me tenderly and turned around to walk back. At that instant, Archangel Raphael lifted his amphora which seemed to intensify the flame within. Archangel Michael touched the amphora and his hand was as if sealed by the flame. And then he brought that flame to my chest. Upon feeling the flame upon my heart, I felt the most intense degree of burning I’d ever experienced, as if my whole body combusted in hot flames. Immediately my eyelids fluttered open, I was panting and drenched in sweat. The feeling of burning endured, and I scrambled to check my temperature only to be surprised that the thermometer read 95ºF (35ºC). Not knowing exactly what to do with the sensation of burning along with the objective knowledge of hypothermia, I drew a warm bath at 3am. I figured the bathwater would temper the subjective feeling of burning while also raising my objective temperature of 95ºF/35ºC. I must have spent two hours soaking in that bath. During that period, I noticed my smartwatch logging extreme heart palpitations and hyperventilation.  

  Two days later I got to the hospital to do an evaluation to verify whether I had something serious, and that's when they discovered the thrombosis. While I was hospitalized I reviewed the smartwatch logs and noted that the heart palpitations and hyperventilation lasted a few hours that fateful morning.  

  I still feel nauseous and frightened about the future. As I write this, the televised event of 1400 individuals [Brazilians] have been arrested by the [arbitrary] decision of a lone supreme court justice. There were zero legal proceedings involving the public ministry, the republic's attorney nor the federal plenary power of the supreme court.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 19/12/2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Abnormalities resulting from a viral infection that resulted in extensive intra-abdominal venous thrombosis, confirmed by antibody test and subsequent MRI.  

  During the period, I was using a smartwatch which logged vitals such as heartbeats, breath rate, and oxygen saturation. At the moment of thrombosis, I was sleeping, laying down, and in those conditions my smartwatch logged 160bpm, 27 breaths a minute, and an 85% oxygen saturation rate--completely aberrant data for someone at rest. When I got up, the bed was drenched in sweat, and I checked my temperature at 95ºF/35ºC even though I felt extremely feverish.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I am not used to rationalizing all my emotions and sensory information that came to me, but during the experience everything happened at once.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the whole extent of the experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normally under bright luminosity, I come down with photophobia (hurting eyes, migraines, dizziness) but during this experience the brilliant light had no such effect upon my eyes.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noticeable difference.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     es, I met an uncle who had died several months prior.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The ground seemed to be a pond of bright white light  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The floor was of white light and the horizon of golden light. There weren't constructions, no platform where we stood.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity at first, anguish toward the end.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     The archangels showed me the events of my life from a perspective I've never had.  sickness that had a spontaneous healing.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw scenes of a dark future for my country. With civil war, bloodshed and a violently repressive dictatorship over decades. I have seen the suffering my family members will endure.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I was informed that I had concluded my mission but I requested to return to help my wife and son after having seen horrific revelations of the future.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   As a psychiatrist, I was already on hand to attend to some cases in which there was no response to clinical therapy nor elevated doses of pharmaceuticals, and which afterwards the church declared there to be a satanic possession.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I met Archangel Michael and Archangel Raphael. I describe this in detail in the NDE.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     They described to me a part of the future, which indicated a cosmic plane  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I met Archangel Michael and Archangel Raphael.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The power of Archangels  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Archangels spoke of a mission completed and a new mission upon returning to earth life.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I met a deceased uncle that told me of the wellbeing of other dead relatives. And that they were looking forward to seeing me and being together.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The certainty of an afterlife. The certainty of a divine plan in which meritocracy had worth.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     It was described the trials that I would undergo should I choose to return.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The love for my wife and the love for my son were strong arguments for them to concede letting me return.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Voluntary warming of the hands.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Stories in the media  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No             				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fabio_probable_nde.html