{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fabio_nde.html","mytitle":"Fabio STE 9404","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fabio STE 9404  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fabio STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5042 Fabio STE 9404  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    But clearly, this experience changed my life completely. I always, as a child, drew Jesus all the time while I was in Sunday school.  

  And now the reason I believe He visited me at that time.  

  I was born with congenital hepatitis from my mother (biological) and the doctors had only given me one year to live due to the disease (at the time there was No cure in my country against this disease) and God housed it in a part of my liver leaving it numb in my body. (My parents gave me all kinds of vaccines to try to stop the disease from progressing, but as I said above, it was not a cure, just a treatment).  

  After a few years, when I was 16 years old, I went to an upper room (a large meeting that was held annually for healings to be performed for people who believed) that day I felt in the region of my liver that something had been burned inside of me. I was certain that it was Hepatitis that had been eradicated from my body and finally cleansed of all the congenital diseases I had within me.  

  Because God had Purified my soul and spirit and just lodged hepatitis in a part of my liver and left it dormant.  

  Because if He had eliminated the disease along with something that I will explain in the next paragraph in detail, I would attribute this cure to the vaccines taken during my childhood.  

  When I turned 26 it was revealed to me that I was an adopted child of my parents. My biological mother was a street prostitute who was conceived by a man who had committed adultery against his wife. In other words, I had been conceived with a terrible and deadly curse, the curse of the bastard child conceived in adultery and acquired a curse on my soul and body. I got my biological mother's hepatitis and my parent's adultery in my soul.  

  For as long as I can remember before I was visited by Jesus, I was tormented by demons in my dreams due to this misfortune within me. That's why Jesus came to me. Because my "real parents" chose to adopt me, God decided to alter my fate (to die at just one year of age from hepatitis) by cleansing my soul of this curse and inactivating the disease in my liver for when I would be able to understand the miracle that He did in me and so, He destroyed hepatitis in me.  

  I owe my existence totally to God and my adoptive parents' choice to adopt me.  

  I know that I have other brothers and half-siblings due to my biological mother's "profession" and I have faith that their fates were also like mine and they are fine.  

  For this reason, I am sure of the Existence of God and that His love is immeasurable for his children.  

  May Peace be with you all!  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         During a dream (then, became a vision)  Other Purification of the soul in a vision (high probability that I have died during this vision)  Yes - When Jesus was cleansing my soul I felt that, if it was not for Him, I would not survive the procedure.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My body felt all the terror and pain while my soul was being purified by Jesus.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could experience feelings that are not possible in this world.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total - I was completely conscious of what was happening to me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same (the only difference is that I was able to see Jesus in person).  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing differences during my experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Jesus came to me from a portal of divine light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Overwhelming terror facing Jesus’ power, and then absolute peace after the purification of my soul and spirit.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I wish I could stay longer talking to Jesus, but He sent me back and woke me up.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Roman Catholic Church  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I’m still a roman catholic, but with changes in a few aspects of the church  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Later, when I knew I had been adopted, everything made sense and my faith was made stronger.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The creator of the Universe, Jesus Christ. The incarnate word of God.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus Christ.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I have been with Jesus, but I don’t know about unity with the Universe.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     As described above.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The fact that Jesus came to me proves that there’s Life after Death.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     In this world, one cannot feel God’s love completely as it was possible during the vision.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            The fact that I’m alive today is the greatest change in my life itself.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I would have No relationships at all without that experience.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are feelings that Jesus transmitted to me that are so hard to translate into words.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I have memories about my life on Earth, but I can clearly distinguish these experiences from the vision I had.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I hope their lives have changed as well.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real for everything I felt and witnessed during the vision.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     as explained before.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it was all covered.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fabio_nde.html