{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fabien_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Fabien N NDE 7502","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fabien N NDE 7502  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fabien N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3832 Fabien N NDE 7502  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I arrived at the toilet, I had real pain in my stomach.  Then I evacuated all the blood that I had been swallowing before with the stools.  The blood had even not been digested. After a few moments, I started to feel some tinnitus, becoming ever stronger in my ears.  Then I heard buzzing and suddenly my vision became blurred. 

There was like a black dot spluttering before my eyes and a big black point appeared at the center of my vision.  It grew progressively larger until my vision was completely black.  At that moment, I heard a sound of bells.  My body fell to the ground and I couldn't do anything anymore. I only was aware what happened to me. The nurses came in and started to slap me to awaken me. In the beginning, I still could feel the pain of those slaps.  As time passed, the slaps felt like caresses and I didn't feel pain anymore.  I heard the voices of the nurses, progressively going away.  

It was then that a bright white light appeared.  Progressively, this light encompassed the whole room in which I was.  This light did not blind me. It was a very powerful white light and I had the sensation of being in a fog.  I felt good, had no pain at all. I thought, 'this is death? Well, I should have died earlier!!!' Then the white light made room for a slightly pinkish light.  The sensation that I felt in that light was even more pleasant than the preceding feeling.  At that moment, I felt that my soul detached from my body without detaching completely.  I had no desire to get back into my body.  All my memories of earthly life seemed like they were being erased.  I gradually forgot who I had been, who my family members and friends had been.

Finally, I woke up on my bed in hospital after a nurse had been injecting adrenaline into me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.  Hémorragie suite à ablation des amygdales, perte de connaissance au réveil de la seconde opération.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   In June 2009, I went to get my tonsils removed.  Everything happened as expected and I went home after two days in hospital. Four days later, the wound opened again while I was alone at home. I swallowed lots of blood. I called my mother who was working about 30 minutes away from my home.  I told her that I had a problem and was swallowing lots of blood. Once my mother arrived at my home, she drove me immediately to the emergency room. The doctor didn't see that I was losing blood because the wound was located too deep in my throat.  The blood was running straight into my stomach.  Following a first fainting, I found myself in the surgical unit.  When I woke up, I needed to go to the toilet.  That was where everything started.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I lost awareness of my body. Once awake I could tell exactly what things had been said while the body was disconnected.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the white light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to go slower in the pink light, as if the detachment of the soul from the body had to be done softly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During my experience I was in my vision: meaning that I was in the light and experiencing what I saw.  I was one with the light and my vision was like a panoramic view.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was the same. I could hear things clearly, but gradually voices and sounds went far away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw two lights.  The first light was a white one.  The senses are developed and consciousness is still present. The pink light was where my soul detached progressively from the body, and slowly I experienced the conscience of past life, my family, and my friends as slipping away.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt warmth, well-being, love, peace, bliss, and calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life. My fear of death is gone, as the unknown raises fear, but following my experience, I'm serene.     Slight changes in my life. My fear of death is gone, as the unknown raises fear, but following my experience, I'm serene.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was difficult to express because this sensation is so strange. It is a short and unique, life changing experience, which cannot be explained with words, as it is nothing tangible. It is as if I would be in another dimension, and that the codes are different from those that we have on our terrestrial plane. The material body leaves room for the soul, vital energy. You have to experience this to understand it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience is real as all senses are overdeveloped, consciousness persists, and once awake I could tell exactly what things had been said while the body was disconnected.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     For me, many things are inexplicable and science cannot explain everything.  For me consciousness persists beyond the physical body.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fabien_n_nde.html