{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1fabia_nde.html","mytitle":"Fabia NDE 3823","mylang":"de"}
          	        Fabia NDE 3823  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Fabia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1808 Fabia NDE 3823  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went into premature labor with uncontrollable hemorrhaging. It's about noontime and I wait while people rush around me saying the same thing repeatedly, 'I can't find any more sheets!' Nobody says anything directly to me. I feel myself 'leaving', I am very fatigued, no more energy to move anything in my body, and this amuses me; then a kaleidoscope, then my mother's voice who says to me without my seeing her 'My darling,' and she cries.

Then I exit my body and ascend to the ceiling; I see my body entwined in bloody curtains, a door that keeps opening and closing. I am very far above, as if the ceiling were very high. The words, 'We can't save her! The car that was bringing blood was in an accident! We are sorry.' My mother's cries: all this must be happening in hushed tones, but I hear it so clearly and loud, it's metallic. I think: 'It's not possible that they are screaming so loudly!!!!' Then a deep wellbeing throughout my body, a desire to rejoin the scintillating brilliant light that is drawing me to it. But I hear my mother's cries and refuse to leave her. When I wake up, my head is pointed down and my chest hurts, it's hard to breathe.

The motorcyclists (police) show me a small thing within an incubator 'Mam, we present to you your son before we take him to the nursery area.' It is 5:00 pm and my son has just been revived because he had swallowed the placenta.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11 mars 1970

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth    Other accouchement prématuré avec hémorragie incontrolable

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Surely at the moment when I died.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Surely at the moment when I died.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very loud and metallic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     A door (like the entrance to a tunnel) drew me to it, very brilliant and scintillating. It was a tremendous pull.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very strong, bright and brilliant.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was concentrating because I was so surprised by the event, wellbeing, curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In a matter-of-fact way. People seemed to be supportive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I know I really went through this experience. I wasn't stressed or questioning. I wasn't thinking in a negative way and had no fear about the future probably due to the naivety of my youth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have studied these experiences since then.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I knew that if it had not been for my love for my mother that I would have been able to leave my life behind, and this has reinforced my positive qualities.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I am at your disposal even though I've told you everything; I didn't see any faces, no images during my journey and since then.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1fabia_nde.html