{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1evelyn_nde.html","mytitle":"Evelyn NDE 87","mylang":"de"}
          	        Evelyn NDE 87  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Evelyn NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						487  Evelyn NDE  87  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was in the hospital with an ectopic pregnancy. I was bleeding internally, and signs of blood poisoning were present. On the way to the operating room, after having an injection to settle me down, I asked for a Pastor, but was turned down. But it was all right, because I had made up my mind that if I were to die, so be it.


"Into Your Hands I place my life," I said to the Lord.


On the operating table, the nurses told me to count from 1 to 10. On the count of 5, instead of continuing to count, I started to pray the "Our Father." I did not finish it, because I was drawn into a black, and somewhat greasy, tunnel.


It was pitch-dark in the tunnel, and I felt like I was floating for a while. As I floated through the tunnel, I noticed that my abdominal pain was starting to go away. I saw a very bright light at the end of the tunnel. I felt nice, and the thought of being dead no longer bothered me. Near the end of the tunnel, I felt I was being pulled faster towards the light.


Faces of people who had died, some whom I recognized and some whom I did not, were shouting, "NO, Go back...Go back...Go back!!"  After that, I heard murmuring sounds.


At the end of the tunnel, I found myself in the middle of all those people. I felt nice. I had no more pain, no more worries and plenty of warmth. My Daddy was also there. We were happy to see each other, but there were troubling whispers around. Almost everyone was saying, "NO!" There was a bad vibration in the air.


The bright light had slowly transformed into a figure dressed in a white robe. Everybody became silent as the figure came towards me. The face of the figure was very bright, smiling and calm. I could even feel its warmth. The figure was not very tall, but was of average height and weight, and was neither a man nor a woman. I asked, "Are you God or Jesus?"  I received a smiling response, "Evelyn, not yet...go back…go back." I said that I wanted to stay with my father. I was told, with a shaking of the head, "Evelyn, Evelyn...not yet...you have to go back." The other people who were around said, "Ah/Oh!" and they smiled. I kept insisting on staying. But the figure said firmly, still with a smile, "Evelyn, you have to go back!"


I felt I was being suctioned back into the tunnel, and the pain started to return. Somebody pulled my hands, and I was out of the tunnel! I was back in the operating room, aware of the pain again. I felt like I tried to get up to leave. I noticed the nurses pressing/pumping my chest. I saw myself as "the body on the table."  Still outside of my body, I tried to pull the nurses away, and I was telling them to stop because it hurt.  However, they seemed unaware of my doing anything. Then one of them said, "She's breathing! She's back!" And, as I found myself on the table, I felt and heard myself breathe.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    February 1973

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Getting up from the operating table was easy, although my wrist was tied down. I felt light and my body was floating a bit. And I could not see my feet.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Full consciousness and awareness of what was happening.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard suction sounds, murmurs, strange silences. The figure did not really speak; communication was through thoughts.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Before I got to the end of the tunnel, I saw some faces I did not know. At the end of the tunnel, I saw my father, and also figures and faces, many of whom I did know. They seemed surprised to see me there. I heard murmurs coming from them about my being there.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was strong, bright, and piercing to the eye from a distance, but bright and cool with a kind of warmth as I got closer.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Since my experience, sometimes I have premonitions. For example, I can see that a person is very sick, by their strange glow. Also, I feel freezing cold and strangely weak in my whole body when a family member or a close friend is about to die.     Also, I can control things by my anger or hatred. My hatred for people causes them to get sick and sometimes die, or have misfortunes befall them.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Methodist Protestant

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The shining Figure...I keep wondering who it was.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing my father, and the worst part was leaving him behind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People either did not believe me, or they were very doubtful.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That experience has been very vivid to this day.   Also, God (or the figure) communicated by thoughts.   God is neither a HE nor a SHE.  I felt appreciation of this life.  Death is no longer a frightening subject for me.  Death is a part of life.  I sensed the presence of others (not alive) in the room.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1evelyn_nde.html