{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eve_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Eve H NDE 20866","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eve H NDE 20866  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eve H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						640  Eve H NDE  20866  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a car accident in 2001.  I was the passenger in the car. I remember nothing of the accident but it being black, and for a second I thought, ‘Why does my leg hurt?’  An older man happened to see the car in the nine foot embankment. He stopped.  He called the cops. After they were there for a while, they wanted to pronounce me dead.  He refused to let them.  So they worked for hours to get me out.  At the time, what my mind, body, and spirit went through was hell. I started out knowing that I couldn't wake up, and then I was shown all the good things and the bad things that have happened in my life.  I started to believe that this was it. I'm going to die.


At one point, my mother’s friends from church came to see me.  The one man worked at the hospital.  I woke up terrified because I was in the morgue, or at least it’s what I saw one minute then I awoke in my room.  I described it to my nurse and everyone else in the room, my nurse was so afraid of me because I described it perfectly.  That was just one of the many.


I have a daughter who was just about two at the time.  I saw her in a field with me, and a little child walking with us. It was strange I only had one child.  Later after I got well, they said that I would never be able to have children, or get pregnant.  They said it was impossible. I know having that second child walking beside me was my miracle, that I was blessed to see. I know this might sound strange, but this is all true.


A couple years later, I had this horrible feeling that a child was going to die.  I told my husband, and he thought I was nuts.  It was there inside me for a week, I felt so sick over it.  That next week we get a phone call, his little ten year old cousin dies on a four wheeler.  This was another awakening for me.  It’s like I've always had this thing inside of me, but it took major self-discovery, and discipline to find it.  Anyway, this all happens in my life a lot now.  I read people, I get signs in my dreams, it’s different.  But it happened to me.  Honest truth.  Thanks for listening.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'May 25, 2001'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  Car Accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' My internal organs were giving out.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn’t see myself except for in the field. I just know how I felt.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was in a coma, and then I was awake.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   My mother said I would talk about seeing my aunt at the store. In reality it happened months before that or I just thought I was dead.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't think so.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     When I was going through the good and the bad, I realized then what hell must be. It’s the disgusting feeling you felt from being in a position that you know is wrong. It’s everything bad you ever did, without escaping to live a better day. It’s the horror of knowing you’re there. I realized that, and I came to be at peace with the world, my family, myself, and everything seemed to begin anew.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No.   No light. Was it an unconscious reality life, or was it death?

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I had no sight with my eyes. There was an inner sight. I could smell two things I'll never forget: my brother’s cologne, and my dad’s winter fresh gum.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was terrified, happy, sad, and at peace. With just about everyone. I was scared to see where I lived at the time. It was like I was above it looking down in a séance. I was happy to see I would live another day with my child.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I realized I am here to be a friend and understand why things work the way they do. Human nature, my children.  So many things.  To help people talk about what I'm telling you.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I had my second child, I made a great life for myself.  I have helped so many people.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My mother kept a journal of my whole episode. At one point, I remember waking straight up and telling her I spoke to god and he said I will be ok.  No, I don't recall seeing him.  But I remember it was like a feeling. I sensed it in my heart.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I grew up faster than anyone my age.  I feel like such an old soul at this point I've taken so much in. Like life, emotions, sadness, heartache, happiness, and tiredness.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I've explained one.  I've had little ones, some is psychology.  It’s all about being perceptive to human nature some is just a feeling you get.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I survived for my children, they need me so.  The worst is my pain, I'm all messed up with a bar in my leg, my pelvis is fused back together without surgery, and I have pancreatitis.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Many with others in the same situation as me. Friends, family, programs.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eve_h_nde.html