{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1evan_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Evan D NDE 416\/22863","mylang":"de"}
          	        Evan D NDE 416/22863  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Evan D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1296 Evan D NDE 416  					  				  			        			  			  				  Experience Description 22863:  					</p>  					I was driving to work at night and it was sleeting and raining heavily. I was running late and was speeding. I was driving at one hundred miles per hour when I hit the brakes too hard to take a corner. I ran off the road and struck two marker posts on the side of the road. Then everything went black. I then was out of my body floating above the car looking down at myself slumped forward in the driver’s seat, I was bleeding heavily from cuts on my head and for a few moments was transfixed watching myself bleed to death. I felt the greatest peace I have ever known and fell nothing but goodness flowing around me.

Although it was pitch black and raining, I could see clearly because there was a bright light behind me (I was twenty-five kilometers from the nearest light source, I was on a country road).

Then my whole life flashed before me on fast forward. I saw myself being born then it would pause a little at every major event that had happened to me. It seemed to take only a second or two from start to finish.

Then a voice said to me ‘Do you want to live or die.’ By the tone of the voice, it was saying to make up my mind quickly or else I wouldn't have a choice. I thought about how sad my family would be if I died so I said ‘Live’ and I was instantly back in my body.

I got out of the car, walked up to the road, and got a lift to my workplace where I was immediately sent to hospital. But apart from a lot of cuts and bruises, I wasn't badly hurt. I was released from hospital after two days of observation.

I was told later that it looked like the car had flipped end over end three times, landed on the roof then rolled over onto its wheels. When I went and saw the car in daylight, I was shocked at the amount of damage done to the car. The roof was pushed down so low I couldn't get in the car and sit in the driver’s seat

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating about two to three meters above my body looking down; I didn't have another body it's as if only my mind was there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very high. I had never known such a feeling of peace and well-being.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only the voice asking me if I wanted to live or die.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a very bright light, lighting the scene up like daylight. It was behind me and I didn't turn to look at it. Probably lucky I didn't over wise I might have gone to it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Every sense was at the highest level.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme well-being and peacefulness and no pain whatsoever.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I chose life and was immediately back in my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Although the experience set me on the path toward metaphysics.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I did discover metaphysics after that while looking for an explanation as to what happened to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was that wonderful feeling I got being out of my body. The worst part is wondering whether I did the right thing in choosing life. But when I look at my wonderful wife, I say yes, I did the right thing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only on rare occasions, I get too much flak over it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have left my body one time after the experience and one time before it when I was a child.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had two other out of body experiences but not near death, I just left my body.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You seem to have it all covered.    


				  					Experience Description 416  					</p>  					I was running late for work and was driving at 100 mph to get to work on time. It was late at night about 11.30 pm it was winter and there was light-sleet falling.

The car I was driving had a fault with the brakes. If the brakes were applied heavily, the car would pull to the left. Normally this was not a problem but on this night, I had a few too many drinks to be driving.

I was driving on an elevated road with about a three to four meter drop off the sides. I came up to a sharp corner and hit the brakes hard to take the corner. The car ran off the road, I remember knocking down two white posts, and then everything went black. Later I found out that I had 'flipped' the car end over end three times, it landed on the roof and then rolled over onto its wheels.

The next thing I was floating above my body there was a bright light behind me but I didn't turn and look at it. This accident happen on a country road with no traffic and nowhere near a town, at night and with rain and light-sleet falling. So the light did not come from any artificial source or the moon.

As I was floating I was just transfixed at just looking at myself (it is a weird feeling looking at your own body) I had a bad cut on my head and blood was coming out of me very quickly. I felt so warm and peaceful it's a hard feeling to describe and I also felt no pain. You don't realize how match pain you live with every day until you have an experience like this.

Then my whole life was played out for me. It was like watching a video on fast forward. I saw myself being born then it seemed to just stop for a fraction of a second every now and then at things that happened, like my first day at school. Then it was over in what seemed like just a second or two. Then a voice said to me, 'Do you want to live or die?'

I was given the impression that I only had a short time to make up my mind or it would be out of my hands. At the time, I didn't really care one way or the other, but I thought about my family and how sad they would be if I died and so I said live.

As soon as I said live, I was back in my body and I stopped the bleeding from my head. I got out of the car and walked away with virtually nothing wrong with me except cuts and bruises. I made a mess of that car I can tell you. I have a picture of it and no one who has seen it will believe that I walked away from it. That's about it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was out of my body and looking at myself. I have never felt so warm and peaceful in my life. It was like I was there watching someone else.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very alert maybe more than normal.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     This is difficult to explain. Time seemed to slow down but everything seemed to be happening at once, that's the best I can explain it. Space was normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noises of any sort, even though it was raining. Only the voice asking me if I want to live and that was in my mind not from outside my body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     A voice spoke to me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a bright light behind me but I did not turn and look at it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Beautiful warmth and peacefulness with no pain.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like on a screen in my mind running at very high speed. I don't really know if I learnt anything that I didn't already know. It happened so quickly that it was hard to focus on any one bit of it. It seemed that I was just getting a quick general view of my life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was asked whether I wanted to live or die. I am sure that if I would have chosen death I would have bled to death in the car. I lost a lot of blood.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Metaphysics

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I fully believe in life after death now. I wasn't sure before.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The voice that spoke to me has stayed with me and advises me what to do all the time. I have found that if I don't follow the advice then usually I am 'forced' to follow it or something bad happens.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was the beautiful feeling of warmth and peace. The worst was going back to my body I often wish I had taken death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only told people like you about my experience. Ordinary people just don't believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I left my body again about eight years later, see above. But it was not anything like the first one.  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1evan_d_nde.html