{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eva_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Eva W NDE 3393","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eva W NDE 3393  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eva W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1334 Eva W NDE 3393  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was scheduled to go in for a checkup at 8:00 am on Friday morning but I woke up with sharp stabbing pains in my left side. I couldn't get out of the bed so I yelled for my mom and she tried to get me up but noticed that I was bleeding very badly - so we both assumed that I was losing the baby. I asked her to help me get dressed and then she called the ambulance.

On the way to the hospital, the ambulance went really fast and I remember getting chills as I looked out the window watching the tall trees that resembled shadows passing by. The man that was sitting in the back with me checking my vital signs held my hand and told me that I needed to try to keep myself awake. He tried to keep me talking as best as he could but all I wanted to do was close my eyes and go back to sleep.

The twenty minute ride seemed like a lifetime because I was in so much pain. I tried not to cry but this would be my third miscarriage so I couldn't stop the tears from falling down my cheeks.

When I arrived at the emergency room doors about ten or eleven doctors came flying out of the hallway to meet me and the ambulance guy shook my hand and said that I was going to be just fine and for me not to worry.

They began cutting me out of my clothing and the last thing I remember them saying to me was if they could hold my wedding ring while I was in surgery. As I looked up they were moving this large light from across the room over to me and it blinded me as they gave me a shot.

The next thing I remember was the light of my grandmother's garden and walking around her beautiful back yard. Jesus then appeared saying that I now had what I finally wanted. I asked him what he meant by that and he said that during the course of my thirty-seven year old life I had said that I hate my life 1,535 times and now he was giving me the opportunity to never have to worry about going back to my miserable life again.

As we walked together, I noticed two deer waiting for us. They were the two deer that some hunters killed in 2000 and tossed alongside the road of where we used to live in the country and I took the remains and gave them a proper burial because I couldn't stand to see someone do that to them.

My late grandmother came to me then saying that she would take care of my baby if I wanted to go back home and that she felt I was too young to be with her just yet.

I heard the sound of my daughter's voice saying that 'The President of the United States was George Bush' and I felt myself being sucked back into my body. I felt so light and free but a part of me was terrified about being away from my daughter. Who would take care of her now? She would be all alone in this world without me. I awoke in the intensive care unit a week later and the nurse said that I had died four times on the operating table before they could give me the blood transfusion but I only remember dying the one time. I was told that I was lucky to be alive and that I would never have any more children because the ruptured tube had gotten infected and so they had to give me a hysterectomy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 16, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Tubal Pregnancy ruptured causing lack of consciousness and major blood loss  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was eight weeks pregnant and just found out three days before the fallopian tube ruptured.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I first arrived on the higher plane.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I first arrived on the higher plane.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to stand still while I was there. I had no sense of worry about time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed to be casted in a light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear thoughts of others.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Just went into the light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Several deer and my grandmother were there and they were kind and supportive of me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The whole experienced was surrounded in the light of like a warm summer morning.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It felt like heaven or something and it was my grandmother's back yard which was 35 miles away from where I was in the Hospital.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A mixture of total happiness and fear of never seeing my daughter again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything that I hated about my life was brought up to me. ALL of the things that I had taken for granted were made known to me!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Buddhist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I still have the same feelings that I once had about religion but it caused me to help my daughter find her own religion and spiritual path.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Buddhist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I still have the same feelings that I once had about religion but it caused me to help my daughter find her own religion and spiritual path.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told that I am alive on earth for a purpose and I should start taking into account for the things that are going good in my life and start giving thanks because it could all be taken away any time at all.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My relationship with my family as grown closer since the accident and I see the beauty in each new day that comes. It made me see how short life really can be!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Six months later I was contacted by a spirit guide that has come to me a few times since. I could not reach such a being before my accident. It gave me a very strong psychic intuition.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I couldn't believe it when it was happening that I had seen this very thing happen but was helpless to do anything about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within days. They seemed shocked.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had a few dreams that I was going to die and had a few dreams about some men dragging me out of the house wearing swat type black uniforms and boots. (These men turned out to be the ambulance drivers and when they couldn't fit the gurney into my room through the doorway they had to try to carry me but I couldn't walk so they had to drag me some of the way over to the gurney.)

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt like I had been on a very long journey and I was very tired.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It changed my life for the better because now I wake up and thank God every single day for my life!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Nothing could compare to that but a few months ago a man came to me and suggested that I go to the doctor. I asked him his name and he said that it was Azreal. When I went, I had a bad bacterial infection and a bad fungal infection and it is a very good thing that I went because I didn't even realize how sick I really was without his help. I later looked him up on Google and he was an angel, although I kind of figured that he was when he came to me in a dream like that.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eva_w_nde.html