{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eugenia_nde.html","mytitle":"Eugenia NDE 3025","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eugenia NDE 3025  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eugenia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1097  Eugenia NDE  3025  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

That day, Wednesday the 14th, they did a corrective rhinoplasty on my nose and by itself the surgery and recovery went without incident. After my hospital stay, I arrived home and began feeling definitively bad because my legs and arms were asleep and my hands began going numb to such a degree that they were completely hard which was painful. The doctor asked my husband to take me back to the hospital. When I arrived, they diagnosed me with a toxic reaction to medication and immediately gave me an antihistamine, which made the reaction worse. My blood pressure shot up. I remember at that point I could hear things around me but couldn't see anything. Everything was dark. I asked myself, and then the doctor, if I was going to die and he told me he didn't know. In that state, I heard the alarm of the monitor continually. Nevertheless, I tried to see and there was nothing around me. There was a moment when I felt panic because I knew I was going to die. But afterwards I felt peace or serenity - I'm not sure what to call it.

At that moment, I'm not sure exactly when, someone or something began giving me an examination of conscience and in the blink of an eye images from my life began passing before me beginning with my childhood. Each image had its counterpart, or as if, the actions of my life were being put into a balance. I could see my house, 'alone and sad.' I don't remember exactly hearing a voice, but I did understand everything that was said (as if my mind translated it). They made me see with clarity that my husband wasn't that being who I had judged so harshly and that my son would be just as well off in life without me. At the end of this 'judgment', there is the option of deciding whether one goes on towards death or stays on earth. At the end of the review of your life, they give you the option of choosing between life and death.

I didn't see any light, only darkness. At first, I felt fear - afterwards I felt peace. Before the judgment, I was conscious. During the judgment, I didn't hear anything and I'm not sure if I saw images or not. Neither can I ascertain whether the person who accompanied me during the judgment was a man or a woman because it was a narrative without a voice. In the judgment, they showed me how small and fragile I am in this world and how insignificant one can be measured against this 'something' that is everything. Afterwards I wasn't afraid and thought: 'Lord work your will through me and if it is that I should die, take me with you.' I began to pray and returned to listening to the doctor who was once again asking me questions. I now listened to him up close as if he were yelling. Little by little I began feeling better.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    February 14, 2007

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  The extreme condition of my blood pressure.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After the 'judgment' when I understood I was on the threshold of death and was no longer afraid.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      After the 'judgment' when I understood I was on the threshold of death and was no longer afraid.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   When I was still conscious and was feeling really bad, I thought that time went by very slowly and that my agony was being prolonged. My discomfort was enormous and consumed me from within. When I got to the stage of the 'judgment' I can say that time had no time. Things that happen in that moment simply happen. One loses the notion of time. I'm not sure whether or not time even passed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The darkness was total, but the visions I had aren't like a movie but rather I would describe them as if I relived them and it's there that my consciousness was magnified.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard every word that was said either nearby or far away from me (I don't know how far away they were).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     No estoy segura, pues la obscuridad donde yo me encontraba era algo justamente peculiar como si estuviera en la nada.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      First fear, because I believed I was having a battle with death. I had the impression that death was tugging at me and I resisted going but afterwards I didn't feel anything and began feeling serenity, peace and calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned of some actions that had caused emotional damage to others, especially members of my family. In one of the episodes, I saw how I caused my grandmother to suffer physically, who, because of diabetes had a varicose ulcer on one of her legs. I also learned not to judge other people, because I know there is no such thing as human perfection and that the most important thing is love and understanding between all beings, be they animals, plants or humans. All have life and suffer.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not yet, my experience is very recent.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Católica

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Católica

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we are the architects of our own destiny. That nobody is more to blame than ourselves for our actions during this life. At the end of our road and after the judgment, we have a final decision to make: Are you going to return or go? That the someone or something that judges you is perhaps yourself. That from now on you can create your life with full consciousness of your acts and the transcendence of them.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Now I am more objective and less critical.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   In my case it was something inexplicable because during 'the judgment,' as you people call it, I was guided by 'something or somebody' who narrates, I don't know exactly whether with words or if I intuited what he was 'saying' or trying to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes, when I had the option of going or returning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Almost immediately because I felt the necessity of relating the experience and the lessons to someone, although I did it with trepidation.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Ethics classes in college. Some movies I had seen that I thought were a publicity stunt to get money by compounding people's morbidness.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It is something that makes you reflect on what you are and how you make your way in this life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I see it with greater consciousness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      As the mortician explained to me, I took it as a life experience that is necessary to tell others about.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eugenia_nde.html