{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eugene_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Eugene W NDE 4711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eugene W NDE 4711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eugene W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2383 Eugene W NDE 4711  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I started to remember the accident, a few years later. Not the impact, I cannot remember the actual hit. I could at first, but I can't now. I remembered the second before the hit, and then - I remembered seeing my grandmother (who died in 1982)! I was in what can be described as Yankee Stadium FULL of people, and full of fog as thick as pea soup. I say a stadium because I could hear crowds of people all talking at the same time. I couldn't tell what they were saying, just that sound you hear in a crowd. Then I saw her, my Nana. She calmly stepped into view from the fog.  She said, 'YOU are NOT supposed to be here!' I remember being happy to see her, but sad that she was sending me away. I didn't understand why. She said, 'Chipper, you have two sons to raise, and if you don't go back they will not be right, they will be bad boys,' I said, but Nana, I have only ONE son at home, she said 'No, you have two!' (Genie was pregnant, but I didn't know then).

I saw people who had killed themselves and were still unhappy, having learned that their problems were not solved by death in this world. I saw people going by, talking to themselves, people crawling on the floor/ground. There was everyone who died! Muslims, Buddhists, Christians - everyone! I thought that only Christians would be there, but that wasn't what I saw. I asked Nana what all these people were doing here, and asked where I was. She said that I was 'in the middle, a place where souls go to wait!' I asked 'Wait for what?' She simply said, 'The destination, the last stop' I found myself back in my body, cold, in great pain, and scared to death! Then sleep. I can't remember any more. I haven't tried though, I think it goes away if you try too hard to remember.  My feelings didn't change at the time of the accident, but sure did when I remembered!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 19, 1995'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 

  On February 19 1995 at 1:05 pm I was killed. I had been traveling north on Interstate 65 and went onto the exit at Highway 31 at Prattville. Ironically, I was on the way to a safety meeting with a motorcycle group.  I exited the ramp at 70 mph and was behind a guy who, unbeknownst to me at the time, was extremely drunk, having drank an entire bottle of Wild Turkey. He slammed on his brakes at the yield sign with no-one coming, for an intoxicated reason known only to him. I of course hit him. I tried to miss him but the Harley-Davidson Electro-Glide FLX I owned would not turn in time. I bounced off his left side and across the highway over a 45 foot cliff. I T-boned the other bank, driving my face, propelled in part by the weight of the helmet, into the handlebars and ground simultaneously. The bike hit dead-on and then fell straight down on top of me, the exhaust pipes and engine burning my legs and body severely. I was dead.

  Several people saw the accident and some of them came running to help. The roadside bank was covered with thorn bushes, which ripped through their clothing as they scrambled to get to me to render aid. I was bleeding through my nose, mouth, and ears. They reported my face as white as paper.  I had no heartbeat, no respiration, and no eye response to light. I was indeed dead. They picked the bike up off me, and began their evaluation and efforts to revive me. They did CPR for the whole 10 or so minutes that it took the ambulance to get to the scene. I did not respond. The ambulance crew used the paddles and I came back online.  They transported me to the hospital, but after they stabilized me transferred me to another hospital. I woke in the ICU two days later, very confused as to where I was and why I was there. My wife explained that I had severe brain trauma, and broken leg/arm/wrist/three ribs/jaw/face/back - all on the right side.  Swelling and blood clots in my skull and face plagued me for the first weeks. I was bleeding internally and my digestive system had just decided to stop working. After a week or so, I was released from the hospital and returned home.

  Interestingly, my buddies had got my bike repaired and ready to ride, so the day after I got out of the hospital they held a benefit for the bills. I had to ride it 10 days after I died on it, with casts on me everywhere. It must have been a sight, but if you are knocked off, you MUST get back on, even if it is just once to 'beat' the fear generated by such events. The hospital got all the money, and much, much more. The guy who was drunk is doing 20 years for drunk driving, attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon, and a bunch of other things. Justice, I guess.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw Nana, my grandmother.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I use glasses for distant sight. This did not seem to be necessary, as I remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandmother, Nana (1893-1982)

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in what can be described as a Stadium FULL of people, and full of a brilliant fog as thick as pea soup.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, elation, sadness and regret.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That I was to have another son.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am no longer compelled through fear to be a Christian.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Pagan

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am no longer compelled through fear to be a Christian.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I got divorced and found a kinder person to live with.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Trying to describe the event accurately to someone who wasn't there is difficult.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     An exceedingly acute understanding of physics, people, time/space, and myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I got to see my Nana, we love each other very much. She once told me that I was her favorite person in the whole world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    5 years. Disbelief. No.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did not remember my experience for about 5 years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I KNOW what I saw, heard, and felt was real. I can't prove anything, I just KNOW.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eugene_w_nde.html