{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ethel_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Ethel H NDE 2051\/20532","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ethel H NDE 2051/20532  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ethel H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						479  Ethel H NDE  2051/20532  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		Experience Description 2051   					  

I'd never experienced all that before. It made me aware of how alive everything is. God is in every fiber of the universe. He's all over and knows all. He's not a person as some may think. God is an energy. I can't type all this, though I know what I'm talking about, but I'm unsure how to word it so people would understand. I only understand because I experienced it. At first, everything was dark, and I thought this is it. I'm dying. I remember thinking, because it was dark, that I was going to hell. Then I thought, where's the lake of fire? At the same time, I'm picturing all the things I'd ever done in my life. It seemed I saw everything in a split second. I opened my eyes and left me body but no one noticed. I was floating over myself watching the paramedics frantically working on me. They kept slamming my chest with this shock thing. One was saying ,’I can't get a pulse, ‘ then  ‘no vital signs’ ‘she's flat line ‘‘ keep trying, we're almost there’’ But there's no use , she's not breathing’ look at her she's all grey,’ They kept shocking me. I saw my body jerk up like every time it hit me and it hurt real bad.

At the same time, I saw my arms flailing around. It seemed when I tried to push them away, my arms went right through them. I guess we reached the hospital. As they were running through the doors, someone shouted, ‘Get the big guns out.’ On a loud speaker, someone was saying code blue, code blue in emergency. A couple more hits with the zapper put me in a comma for about a week.

At the same time all this was going on, I was speeding through what seemed to be a tunnel.  It seemed it was a tunnel because it was so dark all around me and I was in this tunnel of light. The further I went, the brighter it got. As the light got brighter, I could see it was beautiful there. I could see myself on this table with someone sticking a tube up my nose and down my throat. That's the last time I saw my body until I came out of the coma.

But in the meantime, I felt I had reached my destination. I began to focus on what was around me. I saw these beings; they must have been people, on either side of me. I didn't hear anyone speaking, they communicated with their thoughts. They were all consoling me, telling my not to worry, I was safe. There were no buildings, but somehow the areas were marked off, like rooms.

One thing I forgot to mention, before I got that far into the light, I passed an area that was very noisy. It seemed people were screaming and moaning as though they were in pain or some sort of mental anguish. It was too dark on the sides of my tunnel of light to see what was going on. I only remember those horrible sounds.

Anyway, I was no longer on a bed or anything but seemed to be gliding up right further to the light. The light, while bright, didn't glare, but it was sort of a golden glow. People seemed to be floating all around. All happy and smiling. I could feel the love and calmness there. They all seemed to have a glow around them. Someone told me I could have a seat for a few minutes that someone was coming to talk to me. No pain, nothing, just peace.

Then two men came to me who reminded me of monks, from the way they looked and dressed. They somehow conveyed a message to me that it would be awhile before a decision was made. They would let me know the outcome. Then these women came to show me around. They showed me a huge area that reminded me of a library. They told me that it was one of the learning areas, where people were waiting to see where they would be sent. I understood they were preparing to come back here to earth. I have no way of knowing how long I was there, as I had no perception of time. At some point the monks (I call them) returned. They gave me a message that it wasn't my time to be there but if nothing changed I'd be back there at some future date, and a lot of other things, which I can't remember at this time.

It comes back to me in bits and pieces, then I forget again, but that's about all of it. The next thing I knew I was slammed back into my body and hit the tunnel again but going the opposite way. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedHeart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'not sure Poor health had just came home from hospital for triple by-pass surgery.'  Don't quite understand the question. The only life threatening event was that I had a major heart attack. Even longer because I had two heart attacks that I didn't realize they were heart attacks so I didn't go to the hospital. Have a twelve year history of heart attacks and congestive heart failure. Also had two mini strokes. I could add the fact that on November of 1987 my twenty year old daughter was murdered in Florida. We never found out who killed her. The night she was murdered, I was brushing my hair in the bath room getting ready to go to the store for cigarettes with my boyfriend. Suddenly for no known reason I began to get a migraine headache.  While looking in the mirror I had a vision like a day dream. I saw my daughter being chased than beaten and choked by someone, though I couldn't tell by whom because it was dark. That was on a Sunday morning about 1 am. (Sunday morning was the estimated time of her death) On Monday morning I was taking my boyfriend to work, we stopped at a convenience store for coffee and a newspaper. After I dropped him off, I sat there a minute and opened the paper. On the front page of the local section was a half-page picture of weeds by a pond.  The caption read, 'Woman found murdered, identity unknown.' I knew it was she because that's what I saw in the mirror, same picture that was in the paper.  I threw the paper down on the floor and went straight to the sheriff department. It was 6 am. Her picture wasn't in there, just the weeds. But they were the same weeds I saw. I went to the desk sergeant and asked him if I could see a detective because it was my daughter that got murdered. He said, 'How do you know is she missing?' I said, 'I didn’t, but I saw it in the mirror.' To make a long story short, it was she. That's only one example.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It's not that I was more alert, I was becoming aware of some things I never realized or even thought of before.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know. Don't really understand the question. How can I know that anyway? I wasn't conscious until I came out of the coma a week later.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I had no perception of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed like an enclosure, but there was only darkness around the light. The light was the tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     I didn't know anyone. When I finally am accepted, I'll know them and see my loved ones .I can't tell it all, but it was agreed that I come back here to help other people to change their attitudes, so they could go to the light. To see my great grandchildren (I didn't even realize I had any on the way,) and tell people to love one another. I saw spiritual people, but not God.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     Already explained     #25 Already explained  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and uncertainty, then relief, then calm, and then disappointment, in that order.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Only that the entire universe is teaming with life, not only here on earth but everywhere. That tolerance of each other and love is the key.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in ANY organized religion as the majority of them contradict each other and cause wars because they aren't tolerant of each other’s beliefs.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Now I no longer  believe in any type of organized religion,'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in ANY organized religion as the majority of them contradict each other and cause wars because they aren't tolerant of each other’s beliefs.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They’ve changed for the better. It helped mine as I handle my problems differently.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I am trying to make people understand, but it is hard to explain in words. Actually where I say I was told this or that, I wasn't actually told in words. The stuff just popped in my head and I knew.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had brief experience in January of 1973 from anesthetics when I had a hysterectomy.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was not afraid to cross over.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same reasons.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Don't ask repetitive questions.          


Experience Description 20532   				

This whole experience seemed so real. I'm sure it was. Many things happened and many things were said, just too much for me to write. Before I returned, I saw Jesus. He said I must return to my body since it wasn't my time to enter his father's house. My job here now is to get closer to my family, and to spread His love where ever I went and to everyone I meet. I was shown everyone's thoughts and intentions, good and bad. I can still feel peoples' thoughts and emotions even now. I can't remember everything at once; it comes back to me in bits and pieces. 

Background Information:    

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    1999  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-relatedHeart attack  After many heart attacks, and a few stent and angio plasties, had triple bi-pass surgery, went home after 5 days. Had cardiac arrest, had to return for pace maker. Lucky friend was there to call 911. while in anbulance, I was above my self looking down. P  Clinical death Have long medical histor, heart attacks, conjestive heart failure, asthma, code, you name it .

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I know I died because I heard the paramedic saying I was flat lined. After that, I was in a comma for about a week. When I came out of it, several of my children and grandchildren were in my hospital room praying over me.  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   There was no time, seemed like I was there a long, long time.  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Soft music, voices, but not spoken, but mental.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Saw many people who seemed to be confused and lost.  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     It was around me and brighter at a distance.  

The experience included:      Darkness  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Around me and brighter at a distance.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Love, peace, curiosity, and felt it was a learning experience.  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I was told and shown many things.  

The experience included:      Life review  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

The experience included:      Vision of the future  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Too much to explain and no one would believe me any way.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When they told me I couldn't stay, I felt myself slam back in my body. This is my second experience.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate     

What is your religion now?      Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I've always been a believer but more so now. Must say I feel as though I'm a better person.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Maybe a little. At first, there was darkness, like gray. Then, started seeing light, got brighter and brighter, noticed I was moving toward it at high speed. Went through a tunnel but seemed to be blocked off. Two beings that to me looked like monks in long robes came up to me. They said they had to get permission for me to stay. When they spoke, there were no voices, only thoughts, but I could understand them perfectly. One disappeared back toward the tunnel; the other stayed talking to me. He spread his arm upward and showed me a huge room that appeared to be a library with numerous beings in it. They were there to learn. He was telling me a bunch of stuff, but I can't remember. Then the one that had left returned. The two of them discussed something, and then came back to me. They had instructions to send me back here, as my work here wasn't done. They said to keep up what I was doing until my time came to leave here. They also said I needed to stay here to see my great grandchildren that would soon be born. (Too much really took place for me to write it all.) After being out of the hospital for maybe a month, I received a phone call from my third daughter telling me, my granddaughter had a baby girl. Since then, I have 3 more.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Always have but stronger now.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There is no worst part. The best part is the learning experience and the fact that I can teach people about a better way to live.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some believe, some don't. Those who do want to hear everything, so I take time to explain when I can. Also, explain the lessons I've learned. I think it changes their attitudes and their behavior.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No. I feel like I keep answering the same questions over and over.  

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     Some of it, it's just that I can't type that much.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Better to tell it in person, typing leaves too much out!   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ethel_h_nde.html