{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ernestine_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ernestine N Probable NDE 3225","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ernestine N Probable NDE 3225  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ernestine N Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1197  Ernestine N Probable NDE  3225  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was lifted and surrounded by marshmallow-soft LOVE. No words can describe the perfect happiness and security of that palpable LOVE. The whole atmosphere actually consisted of LOVE. Then I looked down and saw several people whom I did not recognize. They looked up at me and said, 'This is the real world. We're the real people. Stay here.' But I knew I had to go back.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 1945

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  'Automobile crash in snowstorm. WAC driving, car skidded. I was sitting in corner that hit concrete wall. 200 lb. Husband thrown against me on my other side.'  Other Pelvis crushed inward. Doctors trying unsuccessfully to pull pubic bone and pelvic arch back into place under sodium pentothal but I was screaming and my husband fainted..  Doctors were unsuccessfully trying to pull my crushed pelvis back into place. I was told that I screamed a terrifying jungle scream that made my husband, who was in the room, faint.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt alert during the whole experience and I recall it now as well as I did right afterward.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The space was certainly altered.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were in an area just below me. I didn't know them. They said, 'We're the real people. This is the real place. Stay here.'

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   The light was not just light. It WAS LOVE embracing and cuddling and surrounding me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the dimension that's filled with LOVE

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      TOTALLY LOVED, TOTALLY HAPPY AND SECURE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that there really is a non-physical dimension that's filled with God's love. I already knew that we're spirits because my grandpa visited me after he died when I was ten years old. But I hadn't known about the LOVE that fills the spirit dimension.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   'Three quarters Jewish and one quarter Lutheran. We celebrated Christmas, Easter, and Passover.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   'I pray a lot to the Creative Intelligence that created the universe and to my Spirit Guide who has helped me in truly miraculous ways after I prayed, ''Use me as an instrument for the Greater Good.'''

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I was embraced in an atmosphere of palpable, marshmallow-soft LOVE. I felt happier, safer, and more secure, beyond anything that could be expressed in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my husband. He had thought I was in excruciating pain because I had screamed. I've written about it in my personal memoir.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     My view of it never changed. And during the early 1970s I was watching TV News and heard a soldier say he was in a plane being strafed and terrified but suddenly he saw an angelic figure say he'd be okay and he felt surrounded by 'marshmallow soft love' - the exact same description as my own!!! So I know that love filled dimension exists outside of my own experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   No substances. But I've had very specific precognitive dreams and some experiences that seem miraculous beyond any possibility of coincidence.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ernestine_probable_nde.html