{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erinn_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Erinn H NDE 6155","mylang":"de"}
          	        Erinn H NDE 6155  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Erinn H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2924 Erinn H NDE 6155  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was starting to have a panic attack, going in and out of consciousness. I felt I was going to faint and felt myself starting to fall backwards, also blacking out. When I completely blacked out is when I found myself below the ceiling. Then I saw two friends and myself that I was with. I saw myself with both my hands covering my face, and remembered that when I was in my body I was covering my face because of the feeling of blacking out. I was surrounded by darkness but did not feel at all that I was in the dark. I immediately felt peace. I no longer felt all my worries and fears, but they weren't taken completely. I had a knowing that they were placed to the right of me for the time being. Something telepathically told me to accept the peace I was feeling, that if I did I would have eternity, and eternity was straight ahead and that meant death to earthly life. If I said no then I wouldn't have the peace anymore. Knowing if I said ‘yes’ to the peace that I would die I said ‘no’, because the whole time I remember being really worried being out of my body and wanting to go back. However, the worry you feel outside your body is different - it doesn't come with fear and anxiety attached to it, like it would if you were in your body. As soon as I made the conscious decision to not accept the peace at the moment. I was then immediately back in my body. When I was back in my body I was still dealing with the panic attack, but because of the peace I had just felt I was able to fight through it and recover.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  don't recall

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more aware of how ridiculous my fears were; that they didn't compare to the intense feeling of peace and love I was feeling at the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I was out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was blurry when I looked down at my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know, because everything was silent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, love, peace, ecstasy, nirvana, completeness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     If I accepted the peace I would move on and enter into eternity.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   If I accepted the peace I would move on and enter into eternity, If I said ‘no’ I would experience something else or go back to my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became more spiritual and less religious in ways of thinking. You can't confine religion, your beliefs, faith or God to a box or constrict it within a set of rules. If you let things be the way they should and are open, the experiences and possibilities that can be shown to you are endless.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i expected to be judged for my shortcomings but to my astonishment i was loved and protected instead

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I came to realize that God is more loving and caring than I could have ever imagined.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     i felt Gods presence and him speaking telepathically to me

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I had a sense that eternity was straight ahead all i had to do was agree to the feeling of peace

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     i was loved unconditionally despite my faults and fears

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   You can't explain that type of love and peace. It’s not felt on Earth.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became a little intuitive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Around this time I had had two other panic attacks. I was dealing with many anxieties. I was so ashamed of my feelings that I thought and felt that God was mocking me, and was also ashamed of me so I didn't ask for any help and stopped praying. Because of not being judged during the experience, that was God telling me ‘I love you in spite of what you're going through or feeling’. That changed the way I viewed god and my relationship with him.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After it happened I was in a state of shock for a while. A couple of years after the experience I pushed it away because of the strong emotions that came with it. I didn't know how to deal with those emotions or what to make of the situation. We humans are not equipped to deal with coming out of our bodies, feeling indescribable love and then coming back to live.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The love and peace I felt was enough to know how real it was.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've had the telepathic experience happen twice after the experience. When I was walking home something so powerful told me something wasn't right about the driver in the van that was coming my way. The van turned around and passed me but then started coming back. If it wasn't for that feeling I wouldn't have ran home. Another time, I was lying in my bed and felt a presence come to the right of me and ask me whether I'm going to decide to become an organ donor. This was weird because I never discussed this or thought about it or heard of anybody mentioning it. I prayed for a sign if this was what I was supposed to do. A couple of days later a commercial came on for an upcoming TV show all about and based on organ donation. About a year or two later I had to renew my license and signed up to be an organ donor.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had two spiritual and supernatural experiences before this one (not out of body), and because of them there's absolutely no doubt that a God exists and that there's an afterlife. Having this experience not only confirms it even more, it renewed my faith in a God that I thought had failed me and abandoned me, to be shown this love when I was in such need of it saved my faith and my future.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erinn_h_nde.html