{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erinrae_g_nde.html","mytitle":"ErinRae G NDE 9365","mylang":"de"}
          	        ErinRae G NDE 9365  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					ErinRae G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5021 ErinRae G NDE 9365  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was 4 years old and staying at my babysitter's house. Her house was right across the street from a public swimming pool.  There was a small, round kiddie pool beside the big pool. We usually went swimming there every day. 

  That day, I was playing in the kiddie pool.  I was sitting on the kiddie pool floor with my eyes open underwater. I could see the other kids playing in the pool. I don't know why I couldn't stand up. I remember trying to push myself up but I was stuck. I  started to panic. 

  The next thing I remember is being above the pool. I could see myself and all the kids that were still playing in the kiddie pool. I could see all the people in the big pool and those playing in the grass.  I don't remember feeling anything physical. There was no pain at all. After looking at all that was below me, I looked up.  I saw the brightest light I have ever seen but it didn't hurt to look at it. I saw what looked like clouds swirling around the light. It was almost like I was about to move towards the light. I felt something carrying me.  I tried to look behind me, and as I did, a huge white wing lifted in front of the light.  

  I woke up next to the kiddie pool. I was on the ground with the lifeguard and my babysitter doing CPR on me. I don't remember sharing this experience with anyone until I became an adult.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1987  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Swimming at the public pool. I did require CPR.  I drowned in a swimming pool.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating above the pool and could see everything that was happening in both pools and on the grass.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It felt the same. I remember being extremely curious as to what was happening.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say the whole time. I still remember it like it was this morning.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I feel like 'time lost all meaning' is an excellent description. I had no perception of time.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't think there was any change, it seemed as though I was using my eyes.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can't really describe it. It sounded like wind. The closest I can compare to it was the time I went parasailing, deafeningly quiet but it sounded like a soft wind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the brightest light I've ever seen but it did not hurt to look at it. It was curious and I was drawn to it. It felt like the light  was drawing me in.  
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I want to say I felt peaceful but when I think about it, I don't remember feeling anything except curiousity about the light and about why I was looking down at the pool. I just felt like I existed in the fullest capacity that one can exist.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

  Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  
  
Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was 4. I don't remember knowing anything about religion  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe this experience has made me more spiritual and intuitive throughout my whole life.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual? Curious mostly, spiritually minded  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was 4. I don't think I had any religious beliefs at the time.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I know there is something after physical death.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I do believe it was an angel. I felt like I was being carried and just before I woke up on the ground, I saw a huge wing pass in front of my face.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt curious yet comfortable, like it was where we're all supposed to be.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Awareness, Yes. I felt like something was there but I was extremely curious about the light and the angel  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I felt like I should go towards the light, like it's where we're supposed to be.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I went to a Christian church from the time I was 17 until I was 36. I left the church because I felt that life, death, and all that is in-between is more that anyone can describe and I was subjected to the dismissal of my nde by those in my church. They said I just made it up. I have come to the conclusion that No man-made religion can even touch what exists outside of our physical realm.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value the existence of loved ones.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I suppose I could try to draw/illustrate it. But it felt like nothing, physically that is. I didn't feel my body. I just felt like that was how we are supposed to exist, just exist. I hope that makes sense.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  This memory vividly lives in my mind and has for 35 years.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been highly intuitive but I'm not sure if it's the result of my NDE.  

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the feeling I had. While I was floating or being carried, it felt like the way its supposed to feel. It felt like home. I remember that feeling and I desire to feel that way again some day.  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was in my late 20s when I first shared with people from my church, they didn't believe me. They told me I was hallucinating and making it up.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I have not felt the way I felt during the experience,  ever in my life since. It was beyond real, if there's a word for that.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Same as above.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not that I can think of.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None, thank you for letting me share and not dismissing me as crazy.               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erinrae_g_nde.html