{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erin_q_nde.html","mytitle":"Erin Q NDE 9411","mylang":"de"}
          	        Erin Q NDE 9411  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Erin Q NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5047 Erin Q NDE 9411  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    The panic of being suffocated was too much, so I exploded into darkness. I was calm as I left my body. 

  Then I was put into a circular and dark, deep life review while in a fast-moving tunnel. I left my body going to the real-south in direction. Yet, I could only look to the east in the tunnel. I knew this was important and so I only looked east. It was circular and dark, except for the left side wall that was actual east.  I went through the tunnel facing sideways. 

  At first, flashes of my whole life happened very fast at like warp speed. I couldn’t see or process anything, but distinctly knew this was my life review. I saw s flash, flash, flash of images without words. I felt calm. Then the flashes slowed down to where I saw all my close family, friends, and those I love. I was surrounded by love. 

  I didn't know anyone well who had passed away.  I saw no relatives or spirit guides, but I think they could have been there. 

  Then I was launched warp-speed out of the dark tunnel. I fell out of the tunnel, hundreds of feet in the sky.  I was a flying spirit/soul, without a body. I felt pure bliss. I was in nature, and flying up the valley.  The mountains and nature were so beautiful. I saw colors and felt love on a much bigger scale than what we can on earth. 

  While flying, I looked down and saw a small female child who was running down the mountain, away from me. In a split second, I knew she was my child.  She was from the future and I needed to go back to my body. There was no question about my decision.  Suddenly, my soul flew backwards out of where she was in the beautiful mountains.  I was launched through the tunnel at warp-speed in the darkness. Finally, without feeling anything, I came back into my body. 

  I got up fought him off me a few more times and ran for my life. I never went back. 

  I have no fear of death and the spirit world. The little girl in my experience became my child 8 years in the future. I totally believe in incarnation and other associated elements. 

    I am writing this at age 47 and my experience occurred at age 25.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 4,2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Compete suffocation  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Colors brighter, no body, intuitive thinking, greater sense of one and love  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The ending when I saw my future daughter in the mountains  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     The warp speed tunnel all-knowing of multiple everything’s  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brighter more colors and beauty  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing needed, I thought and communicated intuitively  without words,
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Tunnel and spirit heaven like world beyond  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Many things  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Could communicate without words and just knew  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     No fear of death. It’s more gratifying than much of life  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

  During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain.     Not sure?  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Read paragraph  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Just knew this  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Future mother saw my future child  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Saw future girl child and 8 years later had her  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Just knew this  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It’s ALL about love. Everything! Universal love not just lower form romantic love  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Abused almost murdered so PTSD less trusting but I needed to become that was too trusting before  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Always intuitive but was greatly heightened  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of if  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only parts took 20 years to articulate like this  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erin_q_nde.html