{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erika_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Erika K NDE 3400","mylang":"de"}
          	        Erika K NDE 3400  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Erika K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1339 Erika K NDE 3400  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had come to realize that I was developing more as a female in my thoughts, emotions, and areas of my body. Unfortunately, I was in the Marine Corps where I was enlisted by my Father when I was 15. I was actually inducted on July 8, 2 days past my 16th birthday. I wasn't to learn until later that I was actually inner-sexed. My depression had grown to the stage of giving up on the notion of life and I took a bottle of sleeping pills. I would like to first add that I came into this life with a memory of before and choosing this difficult life path that I was to accept. In my near death experience, I remember leaving my body and suddenly being in a place surrounded by the purest form of love, which permeated everything, and being with loving beings. One spoke to me and began to show me the importance of the future of my life as a human and how each of us played an important part in the development of each of us as a whole. I was shown how we were all connected to each other and if our life's plan is not fulfilled how it impacts the whole. I was then given the choice to stay or return. I chose to return. But what I can never forget was or is the divine love, the creation, the creator. I somehow knew that we are reincarnated many times and that the plan is for us all to evolve into that pure love here now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 1966

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Suicide

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout and when I came back into this body the doctor was screaming, yelling, and cursing. The contrast of where I had just been with such love and the awareness of coming back into all of this life's emotions solidified the memory into my mind forever.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout and when I came back into this body the doctor was screaming, yelling, and cursing. The contrast of where I had just been with such love and the awareness of coming back into all of this life's emotions solidified the memory into my mind forever.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as though we were all light yet physical forms and transparent at the same time. We were the rainbow, we were love, and we could think and be or see.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I received information with love and light without having to speak, but could speak and hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was very quick. I went from the darkness of a tunnel into the light and returned to by body from the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a group of beings there all sending me messages of pure love which I seemed to just know. The greatest message to me was unconditional pure love and one of them sharing the future of my life with me and then giving me the choice to stay or return.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Pure love permeated as light which is like entering into love with no fear.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place where I was was distinct not in scenery but in what I knew to be the ultimate truth. The place of the purest love.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total pure love and total complete peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     So far it has been extremely accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I spend time in meditation connecting to my higher self and the divine consciousness. I accept every religion and belief as a road to return. I live without judgments and accept everyone without separation.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   No particular religion but I attend the Unitarian Universalist Church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I spend time in meditation connecting to my higher self and the divine consciousness. I accept every religion and belief as a road to return. I live without judgments and accept everyone without separation.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned that any idea of separateness or specialness do not really exist and that what we perceive as our lives are all merely are own creation. I most importantly learned that love in the purest form is all that is real. Very difficult to describe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have less attachment. I am able to love while giving others the freedom to live in their own illusions. We all wake at our own time and place. We are all perfect in our roles here. I quit playing the victim role and began to forgive and close all the open doors.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The absence of all earthly emotions and only the existence of love which permeated everything. The love was so pure that it is hard to describe. There was no grief, sadness, hate, anger, fear, jealousy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I cannot remember a time when I wasn't psychic, but now I fully understood why I felt I was living in a contradiction of what I remembered to be true prior to my birth and my determination to remain open to love and to channel this love through the energy we all possess.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?          The experience of the purest form of love, which is the true energy. It is void of all judgments, separateness, specialness, fear, anger, hate, grief, sadness. It is only that which is good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only began to share my experience in detail over the past 10 years. Prior to that I shared but without going into too much detail. Some are skeptics while others totally relate to the message of pure love, which is the part of the experience I share during Reiki Healings to the higher selves. When we share love without judgments we are all influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I returned to the heaviness of my body and the anger of the doctor who knew he had lost me, it cemented in my memory the pure love and memory of the experience. I knew it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have always known it was real and the fact that I have become consciously aware of the power we all have within us to share pure love through energy viewing each as perfection in the higher selves I am able to use my creative energy in positive ways. Every day I grow more awake to the consciousness I came to know in my near death experience. It is a constant evolving and unfolding of my divine life plan.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know now that death does not exist and I am able to simply live in the now instead of living in fear.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Would seriously like to know if there are others who remember the time before now and choosing their life. Could you add that question?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erika_k_nde.html