{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erika_fs_nde.html","mytitle":"Erika FS NDE 2591","mylang":"de"}
          	        Erika FS NDE 2591  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Erika FS NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						876  Erika FS NDE  2591  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  My first experience happened very fast, but was very significant. What happened was that I fell off a wash basin when I was six years old and struck my head on a heater that was inside the bathroom. At the same time, a full water glass that was on a shelf broke between the floor and my head. The only thing I remember is that I saw a pathway of stones and I walked along it with someone who took me by my hand. We went towards a resplendent light. I wasn't afraid at any time. I didn't see the face of the person I was walking with, nevertheless he wore a white tunic and I walked on his left. Suddenly, I heard my mother's voice and turned back and then I woke up.

My second experience happened when I heard a song that is precisely the theme of the movie, 'Casablanca.' The first time I heard this song I felt a strange sensation in my body. My heart began to beat rapidly and I felt as if my body was full of cuts. Afterwards I had a vision of a highway where I saw a crumpled, pistachio green automobile - so crumpled; in fact, I remember it looked like an accordion. I saw two bodies thrown there (I saw everything from above), covered with blood. I supposed the bodies were dead. But first I felt that sensation of my heart beating rapidly and above all else, my body hurt all over and I felt like I had cuts in my skin. That time I cried.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 En el año de 1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   One of the experiences was caused by a life-threatening event.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   During the second occasion, I felt a lot of fear and my heart suddenly beat rapidly. My whole body hurt and I had great desire to cry.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I wasn't in a conscience state during the second experience. I was afraid during the second occasion. I didn't feel fear during the first.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, at age six, I hadn't lived through many experiences. I had never before suffered an accident. My first automobile accident was when I was nineteen and not with the same intensity that I experienced.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm deaf in one ear. Nevertheless, I don't know for sure if I lost my hearing because of the accident in the bathroom.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I held somebody's hand, but I don't know who it was.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very white and resplendent.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       With the first experience I didn't feel fear. With the second, I recall feeling it.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   They are two different experiences - nevertheless, they both happened at the same age, although at different stages.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't know what had happened to me until I found out about the tunnels of light.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'm not yet familiar with this website. Nevertheless I enjoy it and hope to continue visiting it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erika_fs_nde.html