{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1erik_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Erik C NDE 7513","mylang":"de"}
          	        Erik C NDE 7513  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Erik C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3841 Erik C NDE 7513  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a normal evening and went to bed around 9:30 pm. I woke up around 4 a.m. the next morning to realize I had diarrhea in my sleep then started vomiting profusely. I felt really weak so I had my wife take me to the emergency room. I felt like I was going to pass out the whole way to the hospital. When I got there, I lay on a bed in a room by myself and lost consciousness. 

The next thing I knew, I was looking at my lifeless body on the hospital bed.  Then I saw a light, brighter than the sun, but it was pure white. I then saw my grandmother and uncle who both passed in the late 1990s. I wanted to go to the light more than anything. All my pain was gone, no stress, and no worries. I have never felt so good in my entire life. I tried to walk around them to get to the light, when I felt a small hand on my right knee. I looked down to see my son, who had passed a couple years ago, at birth. He then said, ‘Daddy, keep fighting.’  I noticed that there were three angels. One angel was standing behind my grandma and uncle and the other two were standing next to them. My uncle told me it wasn't my time yet and my grandma smiled at me but didn't say anything. The angel furthest to my left, placed its left hand on my left shoulder.  I felt a firm squeeze and was sucked back into my body with a sort of popping noise/feeling. 

I was back and called the nurse.  I told her what happened. They brought in paddles just in case they needed them.  They put me on an IV and gave me medicine for the nausea. I stabilized and they told me I had been poisoned, probably by eye drops of some kind. They ran a bunch of tests on me and said that I was in perfect health other than whatever poisoned my body. 

Before, I had been very depressed and wanted to die but was scared of dying. Now, I am no longer scared of death, but have a new desire to live. The NDE has drastically changed my viewpoint on life. I want to be healthy now. I find my head full of questions I wish I could have asked.  I wanted more time with my son, as I never even got to hear his voice in life.  I will never forget the sound of his voice that night. I know I will see them all again when it’s my time. I somehow knew that heaven, or my perception of heaven, waited beyond the light I saw in the corner of that hospital room. The angels were the most beautiful things I've ever seen, surpassing any living thing on this world. There are no words to describe their beauty.  The NDE happened a week ago this morning. Yesterday, I went back to the hospital with severe abdominal pain, but to a different hospital in a different state than in my home town. They said it was side-effects of being poisoned after the same tests plus a CT scan and x-rays, but had no more NDEs in that visit. They told that I had been poisoned and if the pain gets worse, they will just admit me and probably remove my limp nodes which were damaged as a result of being poisoned. Other than that, I am still in near perfect health.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1/3/15

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The doctors said I was poisoned.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I knew I was still in the hospital room but was by myself at the time. Had the staff been in or around my room, I know I would have seen or heard their actions and movements, but it was a very quiet night. I clearly left my body and existed outside it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of alertness from the point I saw the angels until I returned to my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   It did not seem to change at the time or since, but it felt like not more than 15-20 seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No different as I have very good eye sight normally.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Better by far, but I don't have the best hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my maternal grandmother, who died of natural causes, my uncle (dad's twin brother) who killed himself, and one of my children who died minutes before birth.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was in the corner of the room, brighter than the sun but purer than even the purest white. I knew it was a crossroad that I wanted to go through more than anything at the time. Oddly, as bright as it was, I had no problem looking at it as it did not hurt my eyes in any way.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Contentment, happiness, then when I was blocked from going to the light, I was annoyed and disappointed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     My path was blocked by every contact I encountered and was touched by my son and one of the angels.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   I grew up as a protestant Christian, but now question much of what I was raised to believe. I borrow a lil from Christianity, paganism, new age and native American religions. ive even been called a witch by some friends.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   same as above...

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     No change in my beliefs, just more proof to back up my beliefs.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw, heard and felt 3 angels sent from heaven I believe to guard me. I did not catch their names.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     i knew that heaven was beyond the light that i saw, i did not see beyond the light but somehow just knew where it would take me if i passed thru it.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     i saw people who i know to be dead as i saw them all in that state previous to my experience.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     only that it was not my time to die

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.  Before I felt that my faith was based primarily on unseen things, now I feel that there is no denying the need to be more spiritual.     Large changes in my life.  Before I felt that my faith was based primarily on unseen things, now I feel that there is no denying the need to be more spiritual.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain It’s only been a week so I'm not sure what the long term effects might be on my relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The brightness and origin of the light I cannot find adequate words to describe and the same thing for the beauty of the angels. The proper words do not exist in any earthly language.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing the people, angels and the light I encountered.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Just a few hours after it happened, when I got home, I told my wife and she freaked out that I almost didn't come home alive, and then she was sad that I didn't want to stay to be with her. I do not yet know what or any influence it had on her. I have also told my brother who fully believes me and my parents who I get the impression they don't really believe me and maybe I'm a bit crazy in the head.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about it on TV but didn't know what to think. Now I feel that there is no denying that it happens. I know what I saw, felt and heard.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Seeing my lifeless body lying in that bed proves to me that I wasn't just dreaming as well as being touched.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as the last question.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I normally see hear and feel spirits and often channel them for people who are living still.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think that about covered it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erik_c_nde.html