{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ericka_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Ericka S NDE 4386","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ericka S NDE 4386  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ericka S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2177 Ericka S NDE 4386  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I do not remember going to the hospital or anything that entailed my arrival there. They told me afterwards that I had to be resuscitated and I remained in a coma for three days.

I remember it was dark, pitch black. I am terrified of the dark in life but I had absolutely no fear. It was neither hot nor cold but I was aware of a tingle. I knew I was dead. I knew I had no body. I looked at myself and was there, but not. My son's father was there, he had committed suicide a few years before and at that time, we had been on terrible terms. All I felt from him was absolute love all I felt period was complete love and peace and knowledge like I was full.

He kept telling me to go back, but it was not in words it was like telepathy or something. I kept begging to not but he kept saying I had to I did not belong here, and our son needed me. My son was kidnapped years before and I had not seen him since. I kept saying, 'I wouldn't know him if I saw him'. My ex-husband showed me a visual of him. He did not look like what I remembered. He looked like a perfect mix of his father and I. When he was little he looked exactly like his father, I did not believe him I said that isn't him. He said you will see.

A figure I could not distinguish came towards me he was in a robe. I felt safe though I did not know him.

He guided us toward what seemed to be something out of 'Clash Of the Titans' like a reflecting glass of sorts and pointed towards it, indicating me to watch. What I saw was like my entire life in seconds but I did not have my experiences what I experienced was the people I was dealing with feelings, like my effect on them, how I had made them feel. Kind of like without judgment but I knew how I had hurt people. I felt guilt but not really more of an understanding of my energy on people.

Then my ex-husband was pushing me back telling me to go I could not stay it was not time, I begged to stay there with him. I was not allowed. He said this was not the place for me. I must go back and make things right.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Was drugged at a bar.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My blood alcohol level was .48 and someone had dosed me with MDMA apparently.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was somewhat transparent as was my ex-husband.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't really hear anything; so to speak, it was more of a telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Felt like I was floating.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My ex-husband was there and someone I didn't recognize.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unequaled Peace, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My son.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am very spiritual now.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am very spiritual now.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Cannot describe.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It is not something I find easy to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always been psychic to a degree.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My ex-husband was there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two years - I don't honestly know what their thoughts are, don't care either. I know what I saw.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only had heard of them, did not believe in them though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it had happened but thought perhaps it was just a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The more I read other's stories the more I know I wasn't dreaming.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   And I have done plenty of drugs.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I will never doubt life after death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ericka_s_nde.html