{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eric_sv_nde.html","mytitle":"Eric SV NDE 4255","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eric SV NDE 4255  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eric SV NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2083 Eric SV NDE 4255  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a near death experience during the heat wave of 2003.  One day after work, I drove straight to the maternity ward where my nephew had just been born.  I drove for an hour in hot, burning sun!

Perhaps because I was tired after work and because of the hour-long drive in searing heat, as soon as I arrived at the hospital room, which was also very hot, I fainted.

At first, I saw everything turning around me and suddenly, everything disappeared! I was in total darkness; everything went black. There was nothing else, but I was not scared.  I felt good, quiet and I was moving fast and straight. I knew where I was headed to and it felt like I was going back home. My only wish was to get there fast! I moved straight into the darkness. 

Then, I heard someone calling me from behind.  I stopped to hear the voice better because it seemed so far away.  I hesitated, wondering whether to keep on my way ‘out there’, or go to the voice that kept on calling me, repeatedly.

The truth is that I really wanted to keep on my journey "out there" to the place I was headed to from the start, straight into the darkness, but the voice kept calling me. I thought ‘Okay, I'll move towards the voice because it might be important and after that. I´ll carry on with my journey ‘out there’. I turned around towards the voice and all of a sudden, I was back in my body.

Afterwards, my relatives told me that I fallen down suddenly and my father, who was next to me, just had time to catch me. I was in the arms of my father, and my mother was just in front of me.  She had been the ‘voice’ calling me repeatedly.

What is strange is that when I was moving straight into the darkness, I heard someone calling from behind me and yet, when my mother called me, she was stood right in front of me. I have no doubt this was the beginning of a near death experience.

My near death experience was similar to those other people have reported but I did not go into a light. Maybe I did not have the time to see it.

Because of my short experience, I have no doubt about the authenticity of near death testimonies. Even those where people say they had an encounter with an Angel, ¨Being of Light¨ or deceased person.  I also saw one of these when I was 21, in early 1992, although it was not during a near death experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  19/06/2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Evanouissement à cause de la canicule de 2003.  Other Evanouissement

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the beginning to the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I´m not sure. I only saw darkness. So I cannot answer. When I hesitated and questioned myself as to whether to go to the voice calling me or keep on my journey ¨out there¨, I saw something, like a picture of children playing in the sand and I had the feeling that I should go to help them. What for? I don't know, but I felt it was important.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I'm not sure. I don't know what I was travelling in or through. All I know is that suddenly I found myself in a total darkness. I did not see any limiting features or light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace of mind, quietness and joy to know I was going back ‘home’.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I did not think it was possible to go to the other side and come back.  Now that I have experienced it myself I know it is possible. I also think there is some truth in religion. Before my experience, I had the opportunity to see and talk to an Angel or ‘Being of Light’ without believing in any particular religion.  These two experiences have led me into a more spiritual than religious life.  I believe in the basis of religion but not in what religion has become.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I did not think it was possible to go to the other side and come back.  Now that I have experienced it myself I know it is possible. I also think there is some truth in religion. Before my experience, I had the opportunity to see and talk to an Angel or ‘Being of Light’ without believing in any particular religion.  These two experiences have led me into a more spiritual than religious life.  I believe in the basis of religion but not in what religion has become.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        In all of the testimonies I have heard and read about, none of the people knew where they were going when they were in the darkness. Only when they saw the light, did they go in to it. In my case, I did not wonder why I was there.  It felt normal to me. I knew where I was going from the start of the experience without seeing a light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    They did not believe me, except for my mother, thanks to other testimonies she had seen on the internet.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I´m not sure. I had heard and read about them very superficially, but did not really believe they happened.  Since this experience happened to me in such an unexpected way through loss of consciousness. I don't believe I was influenced by anything.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eric_sv_nde.html