{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eric_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Eric R Possible NDE 5054","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eric R Possible NDE 5054  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eric R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2633 Eric R Possible NDE 5054  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had gone to bed and suddenly I felt myself leave my own body, a very strange feeling. I ended up in a sort of universe, a cosmos where I saw myself as a five year old boy in something that looked like a phone booth (it's color was green). I had a toy with me, a sort of magic wand that I really had when I was a little boy. Then someone flew up to me in a sort of cart and asked me if I wanted to go on a space trip. It all seemed so familiar that I immediately said yes. I climbed in this cart and the person took me to various rooms. The first one had a door, which said 'past'. I was allowed to go in and as I did, I could look down and I saw myself as a five-year-old boy in my mother's garden catching butterflies in a small butterfly-net. It seemed and felt so real and I saw some other things too. I walked back through the door and got in the cart again, we then went to the door of the future.

When I entered that room, I saw a large black book on a sort of altar. I went closer and I opened that book. The first page had only one word written on it and that word was 'languages'. It is evident now that I love to write poems and everyone says I have a real talent. After that, we went to the room, which said 'love'. I went in and in the center of the room was a very hazy grey cloud. I went closer and inside the cloud, I encountered Joke (my first love) and also Lydia (a girl I have lived together with for three years). I didn't know what to do there so I decided to go outside again. When I looked behind me, the cloud had disappeared and all I saw was Lydia standing there. Then the 'cart' dropped me of at the door 'family'. I went in and when I looked to the left, I saw a queue of people starting with my grandma and grandpa. Behind them were a lot of other people, I had the strong feeling that this was my family tree. Looking to the right I saw my mother, my aunts, their children and behind them another queue of people.

When I went outside, I was asked if I wanted to return to Lanaken. Without waiting for my answer my mother (who had not been present before this) and I were at the cemetery at Lanaken. There were immensely large persons present at the entrance. Jesus was the largest, then the Dulle Griet (Belgian historic figure). I also think Hitler was there and of course the devil himself. Funnily enough, everything my mother and I touched changed into gold, brick, tombstones, etc. There was also a man (jeweler) present who offered us a lot of money for all that gold. Suddenly I was gone from that cemetery and I was being sucked(?) upwards. I arrived in a beautiful place and I had a feeling of indescribable bliss. There were animals (wild ones too) and people who had been dead for a while.

Then I arrived at a sort of palace and it had to be God's house. I went in but two guards carrying shields and lances stopped me. They asked me why I was there, I said, 'I'm looking for God, can you call Him for me please?' These guards stood in front of a large beautiful gleaming porch, which was set with gems. One of the guards entered the porch saying: 'I'll go see if God has time for you'. I waited fifteen minutes, half an hour, one hour but the guard didn't come back. Suddenly he returned through the gleaming porch and I asked him, 'Is God going to see me now please?' He answered: 'Dear Eric, God absolutely does not have time for you yet, so He cannot see you.' I begged him to allow me to stay up there for I wanted to keep the feeling of bliss. But the guard told me, 'God gave me explicit orders to send you back to earth because you still have an important task there!' I was a little discouraged by this but the feeling of bliss was still there.

I woke up in my bed in my room, I was crying but they were not tears of sadness but more tears of joy, very strange. The second time, is a totally different story, I woke up in hospital with my mother and emergency room doctors around me. They had also called in a priest to administer the last sacraments. But those experiences I will post on the site the next time. The funny thing is that since my experiences I can feel things about other people, I am very good with the pendulum. I sometimes see people who have died, like my youngest brother Danny who died, sadly enough, of liver failure on September 3rd last year. I will end this story by saying that my mother also sees Danny a lot, as well as her own mother. My sister sees many future events.

I hope I have helped you, yours faithfully, Eric R. Thank you.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 2009
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  door een teveel een slaapmiddelen waar ik blijkbaar niet correct op reageerde  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   An overdose of sleeping pills to which I didn't respond well.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In God's temple with the guards.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In God's temple with the guards.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     That is very hard to describe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors and smells were much clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     My second story is about that, I ended up in a maze of tubes. Inside were moths, earwigs, flies, the devil's son and apparently also the devil's daughter. Every time I had to choose which tube to enter, in order to be able to go on.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus, Dulle Griet and other great figures from history, my mother, grandpa, grandma, my aunts and uncles. It is possible there were others, but I can't remember very well.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the cosmos and when I was sucked upwards.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     De kosmos, de ruimte, de "hemel", God's paleis, tuin van Eden denk ik ook.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Especially bliss, a bit sadness when I had to return to earth, amazement, joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw myself as a five year old boy. I am now a hundred percent sure that heaven exists and I am sure that man has gifts to help others without personal gain. It has been and still is an incredible experience!

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That I can do paranormal things like helping people without personal gain, work with the pendulum, healing stones. I see people who are already on the 'other side' and sometimes I hear things.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Katholiek

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Katholiek

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See question 21.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some people didn't believe it at all but many others describe it as a real NDE.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Trying to convince people, and there weren't that many, that I had seen, experienced and felt all of that.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See question 34.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        See questions 21, 23 and 24.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother, she immediately believed me and cried.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have always been curious about NDE's.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Like the every day reality. I knew of course that I had experienced things you don't do every day, but still...

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I am very religious and because I experienced these things very intensely and I also felt them deep inside me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   There have been two other experiences but at this moment they are too long to give you a clear description.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, I am now convinced there is life after death and it makes you feel enormously blissful!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eric_r_possible_nde.html