{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eric_nde.html","mytitle":"Eric NDE 4634","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eric NDE 4634  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eric NDE  			            			          						Home  						Classification NDE  			2345 Eric NDE 4634  					  				  			  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					For some reason when I was age four, I decided to bite an electrical extension cord. What happened after that was totally awesome. The first thing I saw or noticed I was in a void are a huge bubble with black and orange jagged lines, I remember looking all around up, down, all around, and that's all I could see. From that I was yanked from the lines by like a umbilical cord into outer space that pulled me into a huge brain looking center, I would say heaven's emergency room. I remember lying in a room with two hospital beds.  I remember a lady, how she looked like us with bigger black eyes.  I remember right away she knew I wasn't supposed to be there (this was communicated to me without her saying a word I guess basically mental that I totally understood) and I was sent back in a flash.

From that, I woke up and part of my lips were sown together which it still is today. For thirty-one years, this has been as fresh to me as the day it happened. I am sure what I saw was real because at the time I had no real knowledge of religion or any kind of outside influence like that. I don't know how you categorize these experiences but I'm just as sure today as thirty-one years ago that what I saw was real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4 years old

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    I had bitten an electrical cord.  Other: Electrocution  Electrical shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Do you mean time of day? 12:00 or 2:00 in the afternoon.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Do you mean time of day? 12:00 or 2:00 in the afternoon.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The whole experience seemed like it took a few hours was supposedly only like five minutes at the most.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In a huge bubble that had orange and black squiggly lines everywhere up down all around so I guess depth and vision got way bigger than normal space. It would be like if you looked all around and a mile out in every direction was the lines and I was 'floating' in the middle I guess you could say.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm pretty sure right off the bat I heard some kind of high pitch nose but that is the only thing I don't remember for sure everything else I'm sure of.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A nurse who looked really just like us except large black eyes that weren't threatening and didn't look like the 'typical alien'.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   The bright orange and black squiggly lines not like the bright light you hear of - and by the way I bet that light only shows up when you're on the operating table - of course you saw a light there in all emergency room but not me I regained consciousness at the house so no light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think it was because leaving the jagged lines being pulled from it via embelical cord to a huge brain like ER is distinctive

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       To the previous question my body and soul were together.  Not one time did I feel like anything bad was to happen. I had a tranquil feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Just what I explained in the last answer.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I'm spiritual probably because of this experience. Were others wonder about the afterlife i feel I know for sure and I am sure. And at that time I had never heard of God or death or anything like that

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that church is not the answer.  Maybe it is I know that something extraordinary is the reason we're here and he isn't weird about being worshiped not that it is bad but I was feed this in I would say a radio signal of answer I wasn't asking being I know I had been there before.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   I'm sure no matter what you belief everyone is going to a great place.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that church is not the answer.  Maybe it is I know that something extraordinary is the reason we're here and he isn't weird about being worshiped not that it is bad but I was feed this in I would say a radio signal of answer I wasn't asking being I know I had been there before.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I feel that the afterlife for sure is a great place and just another part of the ride. In fact I am more sure of that and you can ask any of my friends I have made listen to this story over and over and I'm sure they will tell you word for word what I told. They are tired of hearing this and I will stop telling but I real know that what I experienced was pure fact, and I'm not trying to convince anyone but I feel my experience can make anyone relax about the afterlife.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It has for 6-8 I could remember the umbilical cord but I could explain it and would have said a like vacuum hose, but know that wasn't what it was. The huge brain-like emergency room was like a sponge or coral.  It took me a while to finally put my finger on exactly what it was. I am sure it is an umbilical cord to a brain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I don't know why I receive these downloads if you will but I think it's because I got zapped.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well it felt like three parts.  Orange and black squiggly lines.  Umbilical cord ride from lines.  Pulled into the afterlife emergency room.  So I didn't get far because right away it wasn't my time I felt like that nurse knew me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    If you ask around here everyone can finish this story because I tell it, because I know. I'm really glad this happened it has consumed my life in ways but never bad.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   That's one good reason I'm so sure of what I saw.  I truly never thought about death or afterlife or God or anything like that because I didn't know to think about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well I think because I never thought or knew about death that my experience is as true and as purely what the afterlife transition is. The only thing I am dead sure of in life is that the first five minutes were great and it seemed like a while. I don't feel that the nurse's fast response was because I'm the golden child, I just think they had there shit together the only thing I can be sure in life so I feel for sure that after that something greater exists to look forward to, that's the impression I got.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There are really few things I'm sure of. This is all fact for sure and for thirty-one years I've said it's all fact for sure to me so since four I've been lucky in knowing what happens in something I would have never thought to think to ask.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The next day I lay in my bed for hours and was being sent repair data, if you will, radio signal? It was like data that was healing some fried wires if you will.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, you know I have never asked my cousin if she remembered it or if she can recall but I will for sure because I really don't care how it sounds when you really know for a FACT.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Try to categorize really well: age, what were thoughts about death prior to their experience and see if every couple of years seem to get mass data that's almost too hard to retain answer to everything.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eric_nde.html