{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1enocia_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Enocia J NDE 6291","mylang":"de"}
          	        Enocia J NDE 6291  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Enocia J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3053 Enocia J NDE 6291  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on my way to school at the time. I was about to cross the road. I noticed a van parked and I checked to see if the road was clear. When I crossed, a car came from nowhere but it missed me. When I got to the other side a car hit me and I fell. The time seemed to slow down and as I was falling, I could see car wheels coming towards my head but they stopped just in time. Then I felt myself out of my body, like I was everywhere at once. I heard a voice in my head saying 'It's not happening. It's all a dream!' 

I was back in my body, crying and feeling embarrassed for being in that situation. I felt myself being lifted up and put in the back of a car. Then I heard commotion and someone saying that I was lucky as there was an ambulance at the back. I was transferred to the ambulance, which took me to the local hospital. I remember being very excited at riding in an ambulance as I'd always wondered what it would feel like riding in one. I couldn't wait to share my adventure with my friends at school. At the hospital, the nurses asked me for personal information, which I gave them including my home telephone number. 

I can remember I was still very alert. I only had a few cuts and bruises, one above my right eyebrow and bruises on my knees and the back of my thighs. My right side hurt as it was where the car had hit me. After the nurses dressed my wounds, I was left in this room with another patient who I remember was in a lot of pain and kept moaning. I did notice that I got a lot of attention from the doctors and nurses who kept coming in to check on me. When my mother and aunt arrived, I was discharged. The doctor recommended that I have two weeks off school to recuperate. Later, we discovered that the woman who had been driving the car that had hit me was on her way to work at the hospital where she worked as a sister.

Now it made sense why the staff had been fussing over me. The driver (sister) also came to visit me at home with lots of treats: biscuits, sweets and soft drinks. We then discovered that she was actually related to my cousin's boyfriend. Because the woman was more or less 'family', no legal action was taken against her. I remember everyone being very surprised at the turn of events and how everything had worked out so harmoniously.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had been run over by a car. It could have been life-threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There were lots of people around me at the accident scene.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Not applicable.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe my consciousness was the same in every moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to speed up before the accident and slowed down when I was falling. There was no time, to speak, of when I was 'out of my body.'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No difference.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It seemed louder than usual. Then again, there were lots of people around me at the accident scene.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It felt like I was everywhere, present and observing things but this only lasted for a moment.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None during the experience but distressed when I was back in my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Although I can clearly remember the Voice telling me the accident wasn't happening and I was dreaming it, it wasn't till years later that I came to understand what that meant and who the 'observer' was.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was being raised in a Christian home, but it doesn't mean I was Christian.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I definitely believe in Love's omnipresence but I've got no religious belief whatsoever.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was being raised as a Christian with the belief that God is Love and God is always looking after us.    Every morning we had a family prayer meeting and every day we read "The Lord's Prayer" and the 23rd Psalm which are about God's love and how God takes care of us.  Where there is Love there cannot be accidents.     In Psalm 23 verses 4 and 6 read:     "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me."    "Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever."    I believe those two verses are perfectly consistent with what happened during the accident.  Love was the "staff" comforting me.  Love was the goodness and mercy around me.  That's why everything worked out for the best.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It made me see life as wonderful. I also believe just because you've made your bed, you don't have to lie in it. Love can erase all errors and make everything perfect.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a voice telling me the accident wasn't happening and it was a dream. I felt myself as a kind of 'awareness' or observer.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I only know that I was not confined to any time or space, I was awareness.  Put another way, I was everywhere present.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Although I didn't understand what the Voice meant by the accident 'is not happening', it was many years later that I came to understand what it meant to dream the accident. I came to understood it to mean that life is an opportunity for us to express and experience love. Only love is real. Though accidents and suffering appear to be real, they are not really happening.  They are only dreams. We can dismiss those dreams by waking up from those dreams like one can wake up from a sleeping dream and realize it was only a dream.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Although I didn't understand what the Voice meant by the accident is not happening,  it was many years later that I came to understand what it meant to be dream the accident.  I came to understood it to mean that life is an opportunity for us to express a

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Although I didn't understand what the Voice meant by the accident is not happening,  it was many years later that I came to understand what it meant to be dream the accident.  I came to understood it to mean that life is an opportunity for us to express a

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Not directly but from the way things worked out perfectly, it demonstrated to me that Love was at work in that experience.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I must stress I have no religious life. I just believe life is spiritual.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't tell anyone, I just kept it to myself. It was only years later that I discussed it with my mother.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   There are events that have occurred in my life that I've forgotten. This one stands out very accurately because of the synchronicities. My mother is still amazed at how things worked out for the best.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I am constantly experiencing the oneness and wonder of life, which I record in writing on my blogs. I don't consider my experiences to be special gifts; I believe we all have these 'gifts' in us.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience was meaningful. I was being shown that Love cares about me at all times. Love took care of me after the accident. Love also gave me insights about the accident that it wasn't happening. If I had taken that insight on board, it could have been erased from record and memory.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't share it with my mother until about 20 years after the accident. She thought it was wonderful. She saw what happened at the time and how everything had worked out anyway. I have shared the experience on my blog. I don't care what people think. I leave it to people to make of the experience what they will.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew the Voice was real and that I had become the observer but I didn't quite understand what the part about the accident 'wasn't happening' meant. It was years later when I started studying Truth principles that it made sense.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still view the experience as very real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   In my early twenties, I had this idea to start meditating. Although I didn't have a clue how to meditate, I would just lie in bed and just try to relax. After months of meditating, I started seeing light within that looked like a sun and I could feel it pulling me but I resisted it. One day I surrendered and I was pulled into this light that was millions of times brighter than the sun. In that light were infinite happiness, joy, peace and bliss. I was aware that I was the sun. I also felt like everyone else was there with me. It was such a wonderful place to be that I never wanted to leave that sun. When I returned to normal consciousness, I got depressed. I would then try to duplicate the experience. 

  Months would pass and then I would have another experience of the sun. The more I experienced the sun, the more depressed I got because I saw the sun as life and the earth experience as 'death.' Gradually, I came to realize that my purpose on earth is to express the sun/light here and now and share. I've also had near misses. Once when I was crossing the road, a van appeared and was about to run me over but someone grabbed me and pulled me out of the way. When I turned round to thank my savior, there was no one there. Another time, just as a bus was about to run me over, time slowed down or sped up (depending on perspective) and I had all the time in the world to get out of the way. It was only later that I realized what a close shave that was.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life is wonderful! There are events that have occurred in my life that I've forgotten. This one stands out very accurately because of the synchronicities. My mother is still amazed at how things worked out for the best.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1enocia_j_nde.html