{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1emily_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Emily R NDE 22524","mylang":"de"}
          	        Emily R NDE 22524  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Emily R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2780 Emily R NDE 22524  					  				  			           			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					July 11, around 2:00 p.m. I was about to have surgery.  I had told my daughter to read the 23rd Psalm to me. She had asked the nurse to read it to me. They gave me medicine to put me to sleep. They rolled me into the operating room. The next thing I remember, I saw my body on the table. Then I was in this dark room. I started to turn my head around and that's when I saw the light. I tried to drag my hand and my body toward the light. The next thing I remember, I was in the recovery room. Next, the nurse started pushing the bed toward my room. My daughter was explaining to me what had happen, but I wasn't paying attention. The next morning, I felt so at peace. I was in a daze! The doctor came in and explained what had happen to me. He said, ‘The surgery went well, but there was a problem getting the trachea out of your mouth.’ I had died but started breathing again on my own. I was very much at peace while he was talking to me, but also in a daze. In three days, I requested to go home.  While at home, I started to remember. It was like a flash. As I remembered, I was just crying, and crying.  I couldn't stop. I called my family and friends and told them about my experience. I just couldn't understand what happen to my body. I looked like some creature who had to drag itself around.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 11, 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    trachea got stuck/stop breathing  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like my head was looking for my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very alert during the experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt at peace.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I looked like a squid.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like a bush of light. It had different colors on the bottom and white on the top. It look so peaceful. I knew I had to go to that light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I had to find my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Spiritual

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is a god.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I couldn't believe that I had died.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The light was the best experience for me, it look so peaceful. The worst was the dark room and the creature I saw.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    just look at me. And praise God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1emily_r_nde.html