{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1emelie_m_sd.html","mytitle":"Emelie M Shared Death Experience 32380","mylang":"de"}
          	        Emelie M Shared Death Experience 32380  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Emelie M Shared Death Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared Death  			4000 Emelie M Shared Death Experience 32380  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This happened in September, 2006. 

I was sleeping in my bed, when a ball of a magnificent light of a warm gold, the size of about 30 cm, was opening up above me.  The ball was like an image of a vortex, if I may express myself that way. I have the impression that it was not my eyes seeing it, but my soul that saw it as if it was resting on my sleeping body.  Immediately upon its appearance, I remember that I was scared that my partner might see it.  I focused my attention in his direction to assure that he was sleeping, as if I knew that it came for me. 

This golden light radiated such an intense joy that I had the impression that on my face a big smile was forming, covering my face completely. This immense joy, I had never experienced on earth.  Yet, the joy was  familiar to me and was putting a comforting balm on my heart, instantly wiping out my suffering. Inside of the ball were two bright forms with vague outlines.  I could only see the form of a head and chest; I saw neither arms nor legs.  It were as if they were looking at me through a window. The being of light at the right seemed female to me.  She was like a guide accompanying my friend, who was at the left from my viewpoint. It communicated with me by thought, 'There is a dear being that wants to see you a last time.' I sensed a feeling of compassion and sadness for our earthly sufferings, coming from the guide. I immediately reached towards the light, with what I think was my 'energetic hand.' I grabbed a protuberance resembling a hand of golden light, that came out of the light ball. 

After that, my experience is a little bit confused in my memory.  But I have the impression that I was traveling through the walls of a hospital.  My friend and his guide showed me the scene of his premature death, with surgeons working trying to save him.   The diaphanous soul of my friend was watching the scene calmly from the left upper corner of the room. It seems to me that the surgeon was disappointed because he was unble to save my friend.  My friend, who had gone at only 35 years due to a ruptured aneurysm, said with dismay, 'He fought pretty well. . .' Then I remember the movement of my 'energetic hand', which in a graceful and agile gesture, set down in its initial position on my sleeping body.  I also had this feeling of profound appeasement inhabiting me.  

In the early morning, I wanted to talk about it with my partner and said in a brief manner, 'I saw a light in the night.' He looked at me strangely saying, 'You must have been dreaming.'  I didn't talk about the experience any more. A few days later, I received a mail from a friend of my athletic's club announcing to me the death of my friend. 

All the memories of this experience remained buried in my memory and became clearer with time.  I was avoiding this experience until I heard some talking about NDEs in 2011.  I noticed the many similarities of my experience and NDEs, namely the presence of this light irradiating an immense joy, familiar but not earthly by its intensity, the communication by thought of this very revealing sentence, 'There is a dear being who wants to see you a last time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10 Septembre 2006.

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When the hand of my soul grabbed the golden hand of the light ball and when I traveled by crossing through the walls of the hospital.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time probably was passing slower at hospital as in my sleeping room.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw him, or rather his soul.  First, I saw him as a being of golden light.  Then I saw him again when he was looking at his body while the surgeons tried to save him. He was in the left upper corner of the room, his diaphanous soul stretched out on the ceiling while watching the scene.  I saw a being of light irradiating a golden light, then as the diaphanous translucent soul form.     My friend was the ball of light the form was golden, but its outlines were vague. I didn't see limbs, only the luminous form of a head and bust.  Then in hospital, I saw the whole body as his soul, while watching its body.    He looked 35 years old, which was the age he died at.  He died a premature death; this person was in perfect health.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was the being of light on the right.  She was the guide who communicated through thought, 'There is a dear being that wants to see you a last time.'

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The guide of golden light accompanying my friend.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Golden, under the form of a light ball irradiating an intense joy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In my room then in a hospital.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       This marvelous joy that I never felt with such intensity on earth, one of those that are capable to heal all wounds of your heart. Then the appeasement at the end of the experience.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The survival of the soul after death of the 'earthly body.' Life from now on makes much more sense.  What is important, is love that we give to ourselves and that we give around us, in the smallest things of life. Thanks to this experience, I filled up my intrinsic emptiness with love and faith and this helps me for living.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I suppressed the experience during six years, until I came to know about near death experiences, and the similarities with my own experience.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I didn't know that he died, I heard it some days later by a friend who sent me a mail.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The unlikely and extraordinary aspect of the whole experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience as a whole was very beautiful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my partner the next morning, I told him that I saw a light in the night.  I asked him if he also saw it, but he looked at me skeptically and told me that I was dreaming. I talked many times about my experience to others around me, but the reactions of people depend upon their beliefs, their personalities, experiences, and etc. This can be very soul-stirring and rich-talking about it with people that are open for this kind of phenomena.  It also can make me look like a lunatic, by the most Cartesian of thinkers, but I don't care.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1emelie_m_sd.html