{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elzada_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Elzada O NDE 1078","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elzada O NDE 1078  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elzada O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						480  Elzada O NDE  1078  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

For a couple of days prior I was so ill and now looking back realize too ill to even comprehend what was happening. I thought I had diarrhea, I had no comprehension I was bleeding to death - it was from an ulcer. I was told later by the doctors, that I probably wouldn't have made it if it had been two hours later. Anyway, the experience was phenomenal. I remember my grandparents and a few others being around me.  Then it seemed as if I was headed for the light which seemed so peaceful and I really wanted to go, but it was at this time that God intervened and told me that it wasn't my time yet, there was still some unfinished business - that is about it.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I bled to death, brought back only by the Grace of God.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  For a while, really can't describe it too much, except that it was a great feeling of peace and love.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Not much, sort of remember vaguely when arriving at the hospital of trying to tell something, no knowledge.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Since I was in the intensive care unit for a number of days, told after I came around, I couldn't believe it had been ten days.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The only noises or words as I described them was God speaking to me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My grandparents and others of whom were not too clear, or at least I do not remember, but some were there.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was totally euphoric, there seemed to be so much peace and love and understanding, the knowledge that I was truly in the right place.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just going into the light was so awe inspiring and restful, peaceful and full of love.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     When God told me in no uncertainty that it was not my time, that I had some unfinished business.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not too many past events, but I thought of my puppy I had just gotten and was wondering what was going to happen to her.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Sort of that everything would be okay, at least that was the feeling that permeated my body after it was all over.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   God telling me that it wasn't my time yet.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     As in above. The ability to listen better and hold no resentments or grudges, mainly I was filled with so much peace and love throughout my body.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Can't express in words, will try. It seemed as if I was fighting something until I started toward the light, it appeared to be that some of my relatives were present whom have now passed - I remember God telling me something that my mission on earth was not finished. In other words it wasn't my time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     The special gift that I became more serene and willing to let go of a lot of things that had been holding me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Upon awakening days later and realizing how ill I really was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    A few people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      For me it was totally going into the light, experiencing God and hearing his voice, knowing that my mission was incomplete, more lessons of learning - just becoming aware of everything.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      This questionnaire was pretty complete I thought.  Thanks.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elzada_o_nde.html