{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elsa_nde.html","mytitle":"Elsa NDE 2290","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elsa NDE 2290  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elsa NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						660  Elsa NDE  2290  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Swimming in a pool and suddenly panicked when I could not reach the side of the pool. Started sinking and every time I was able to surface, saw the life guard with his back turned to me, talking to the lady that had brought me. Kept gasping for breath until I finally could not hold my breath any longer and took a big inhale of water. After that the exact sequence is uncertain, but I was being lifted above the pool and then when higher and higher.

I was in a tunnel, it reminded me of 'Alice in Wonderland', and I was very scared. At one point, I was in a dark, dark place. Things were crawling on me and I could hear moaning and terrible things. At this point, I said, 'Help me God.' Then I was in another place where people seemed to know my name. There was a man I did not recognize and was shown him holding me as an infant (my grandfather) I was scared and did not want to be there.

Then, whom I believe may have been Jesus.  He showed me my life and how I had misbehaved and talked back to my mother. Every time I tried to defend myself, I saw how it looked through His eyes, was very ashamed, and asked for forgiveness. He explained to me how some people didn't believe in Him and he was very sad. There were little beams of light shooting from earth into the heavens and I asked Him what they were. He told me they were prayers and then I felt better, because it seemed many people must believe in Jesus. He explained the whole universe to me and everything made complete sense to me. I then decided I would like to stay there and that is when He showed me my mother crying her eyes out. I asked Him why my mother was crying and He said that if I do not return it would break my mother's heart. He then showed me two little boys and told me they were to be my sons. I was so shocked and excited being only eight going on nine, knowing I was going to have children and someone would actually want to marry me. He showed me some heart breaking things, as my son would not be a believer in God and hurt Him. So then, I was so sorry for this and thinking, I am not going to go back if it is going to hurt Jesus.

Then He showed me an auditorium and the speaker on the stage was so wonderful. The people in the audience were hanging on his every word. I thought this is a very special person. And then God told me, this is your son. I could not believe it. The same son that shamed God was somehow going to redeem himself. He also showed me my other son would be fine and upstanding. He told me I had to go back and I was in some kind of euphoria over the things that were revealed to me. So I agreed and the next thing I knew I was catching the side of the pool and trying to pull myself up.

When I was finally seen, there was a big commotion as the lifeguard rushed over and pushed on my back so I could cough up all the water. He was very embarrassed, as he had been neglecting his duties. I must have been blue, because everyone was very shook up. There was no CPR in 1959. In the car on the way home, my eyes and throat burned and I had trouble speaking. The lady that took me there told me, I should not tell my mother what happened, or I will never be allowed to go swimming again. So I never told another soul, and then forgot about the whole thing until I heard a radio program in 1973 discuss near death experiences and then it all came flooding back to me. That is why I am confused as to the exact sequence of events.

I can say that after this experience I suddenly noticed how blue the sky was and how beautiful the flowers were. I suddenly found favor with the neighbor kids, whom never really noticed me before. When I attended summer Bible school, I suddenly hung on every word.  I would raise my hand to answer questions, when before I would be shy, hide, and daydream through the class. I had only attended because my best friend was going. The teacher suddenly treated me differently instead of ignoring me. When I would walk to the church in the morning, I get the feeling I was not alone and I was being taught an appreciation for flowers, and animals and nature. This feeling lingered for a few weeks. Looking back I think I was conversing with someone at this time that accompanied me, I was not alone.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1959  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other Pool drowning  Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I think being explained the workings of the universe and totally understanding it. And it was very simple, but now trying to think of it from a human mind concept of course, it would make no sense. It only makes sense when you have the mind of God.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the review of my life due to shame.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Seems I was there quite a while, when only seconds or minutes had passed.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Since I had lost any memory of this until many years later, I cannot be certain. But on earth, I can say everything was enhanced.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Once again, no total recollection. A speaker once said some people block out their NDE, because it was so awful. My was not awful, but details unclear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As I stated previously, I felt like 'Alice in Wonderland' and wished I had my stuffed animal with me to hold because I was so scared.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a little girl ice-skating that called out my name. I do not know who she was, but remember when I was four or five there was a tragedy regarding someone I may have known falling through the ice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I believe so but, I am always confused as to the sequence. If it was darkness first and then the light. It doesn't make sense to see light first and then go to darkness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A beautiful place where the little girl was ice skating and also sort of a planet and seeing orbs of light shoot there that were prayers of believers.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and then acceptance and desire to stay.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     As I stated above, I learned about my children and also how much God loves me, and He wants everyone to believe in Him.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I have always been wiser for my years. And had a knowingness that everything would be okay.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none. ONLY knew Know I Lay me down to sleep prayer, that is all  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I wouldn't say just because of what happened. But my faith is strengthened because of what I know.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Born again Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I wouldn't say just because of what happened. But my faith is strengthened because of what I know.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I remember it was so simple, and why didn't I think of that before, or actually knew all along and didn't realize it. It is just so incredibly simple that if I were to remember it no one would believe it, because it is just too simple and easy an explanation. We think everything has to be complicated and deep.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think I became a more thoughtful, compassionate person. I think my children have grown up being very compassionate to those less fortunate.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Memory was forgotten for thirteen years.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Occasionally, I just know something. It is random, but I always know when it is going to be true.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I will never get over the wonderful gift of two sons that God gave me. And of course, life after death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirteen years and people and very interested.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As a child, life became so much more beautiful, in a world that was very unhappy for me at the time. It kind of gave me insight.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe truly God was relating to me why I needed to be here. I have a knowingness of God that cannot be explained. And no one can talk me out of.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think someday every detail will be revealed to me. But right now God only allows me to remember, what I need to know for now.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Why were you spared? What is your purpose in life? How did it change your life?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elsa_nde.html