{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1eloise_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Eloise S NDE 5305","mylang":"de"}
          	        Eloise S NDE 5305  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Eloise S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2789 Eloise S NDE 5305  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This happened in 1974. I was in hospital having my baby. I had tuberculosis at the time and was having problems breathing. The nurse had to hold my hands down because I kept trying pull the breathing mask off. When I turned my head to look at the heart monitor, I realized that I was not breathing any more. I was above my body, up near the ceiling in a different dimension. It was like looking out at a 3D glass window. I tried to figure out what was happening, as I looked at my body below me. I was watching the doctor, nurses and other people trying to bring me back. To me, everything seemed to be in slow motion and I felt so peaceful. I kept trying figure out why my body was below me. As I looked down at myself, I noticed I was wearing the hospital robe that I had put on earlier and everything else looked the same. Suddenly, I was looking at my hands and was no longer above myself. I opened my eyes and was in my hospital bed again. My doctor was sitting next to me in a chair. I looked at him. He said, ‘We almost lost you’ and I said, ‘I know because I saw everything.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec/15/1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness. Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I felt the normal level consciousness and alertness.  Like I feel now.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Things seemed to happen in slow motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was a strange 3D glass like effect.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear things from further away than usual.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just that big room with a 3-D glass you can look down in.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I did not feel any emotions at all.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was at home one night and fell asleep. I saw the police pulling my daughter over in her car and shining a flashlight in her face. I was woken up by the doorbell ringing. It was my daughter. I asked her ‘Did the police pull you over?’ She said ‘How did you know that?’ I replied ‘I just saw it in a dream’.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel I have more knowledge than before.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My heart doctor told me I can feel everything with my heart. He did not know what was wrong with me. He had to have a meeting with other doctors. He told them that I was a special person. He told them that of all the patients he has ever treated he has never had anyone like me.  I know when somebody is going to die by holding their hand. If somebody tells me a sad story, I can feel what they feel. When I see a sad movie, I cry. I can sense deceased spirits. I had dream about my aunt and she told me she was sorry for everything. Soon after that, I heard she had died.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told some people but not right away. It took me time. It was in 2003, almost 30 years after my NDE that I started to be a card reader and now I share my story with everybody.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       There are many things but I have nothing to say right now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1eloise_s_nde.html