{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ellis_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ellis B Possible NDE 163","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ellis B Possible NDE 163  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ellis B Possible NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1446 Ellis B Possible NDE 163  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting on my couch and my breathing was cut off. I was staring at my hand, and I saw myself draw away from my body. Then, something or someone 'pushed' me back into the world. I stood up quickly because the whole thing startled me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    I was sitting on my couch and my breathing was cut off.  I was staring at my hand, and I saw myself draw away from my body.  Then, something or someone 'pushed' me back into the world.  I stood up quickly because I was startled by the whole thing.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death You could consider it either one of these - I was entirely conscious through the whole thing.  Well, not really. I did stop breathing; at least, I'm fairly sure I did.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I'm not sure what you mean by this. Did I feel a separation of mind and body? Yes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware of everything, but the event caught me off guard, and, with time, my recollection is somewhat diminished.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I'm not sure on this -- if you asked me how long the event took, I would not be able to tell you -- it seemed to happen very fast.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't see or meet anyone or anything, but there was definitely someone else 'there'.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was startled more than anything.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     This is difficult to explain. It made me see the world a bit differently. We are all people, but we are not really all the same. It gave me somewhat of a sense of clarity about my destiny, and the change, but myself was really not very dramatic. It didn't really tell me anything I didn't already know. It may have clarified it.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I'm not really sure of this. I didn't learn anything new.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Definitely. This was probably the most profound thing that happened. I have become extremely psychic, which I don't think I had before. I get thoughts or predictions about things and people. Sometimes I'm right and sometimes I'm not. It's about 50-50.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     As I stated, I felt something or someone push me back. If this is what you mean by a boundary, then yes I did encounter one. I believe that once you cross this boundary, you cannot come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   Not at all.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  
   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to describe because I had never experienced anything like it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Described this above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was somewhat frightening. The best part is that I am absolutely one hundred percent sure, that there is an afterlife of some kind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I haven't. I find it somewhat embarrassing. They are aware, however, that something happened to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The only thing I can think of and I want to share with you is that when I stated that someone pushed me back, I can tell you that I think I know who this person is. It is a deceased relative whom I never met. I can't verify this of course, but I have really strong feelings about this -- I'm virtually positive that I know who it is.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ellis_b_possible_nde.html