{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ellen_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Ellen N NDE 4577","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ellen N NDE 4577  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ellen N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2305 Ellen N NDE 4577  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I realized that I was no more than an eye or something with vision, which was me, and I was on top of the lights in the surgery room. Then I realized it was me and I was looking around and suddenly I looked down and there I was looking at myself laying on the surgery table The doctor was pounding on my chest trying to revive me. Then I realized that I was looking down at my body and for just seconds I knew what was going on. I felt as if I was the smallest entity imaginable almost like I was the smallest water drop but with thinking abilities to recognize myself as being almost a spirit of some kind. But when I had realized that I must be dying the next thing of acknowledgment was when they were waking me up out the anesthesia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other: Had a miscarriage. Undergoing a DNC in the Hospital.  When I was out of my body I was looking down at myself and the doctor was pounding on my chest to revive me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I realized it was me looking down at my own body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized it was me looking down at my own body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know. I just know it happened very quickly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed to be much brighter surroundings all around me and the room.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think I was in a different dimension because of how I looked at myself being a spirit of some kind.  I really do not know what you would call my experience.  Would it be called a level or a dimension?

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotions at all.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Born again Christian.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I always have been a believer in God but it has changed dramatically in my understanding of the universe and the cosmos and of God. I am not saying I know everything about these subjects but I am not as confused as I was before. I learn something new every day about these subjects and I have more of an opened mind to learn about the unknown.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None denomination but a believer in God or Spirit.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I always have been a believer in God but it has changed dramatically in my understanding of the universe and the cosmos and of God. I am not saying I know everything about these subjects but I am not as confused as I was before. I learn something new every day about these subjects and I have more of an opened mind to learn about the unknown.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew instantly that it was me on the table with the doctor on top of me pounding on my chest but I was not worried at all. I felt like I could be a feather floating with no weight on me at all.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have to restrain myself when I have conversations with people because I have a hard time expressing myself when it comes to knowing things. People ignore me when I talk to them and I really do not understand why this always happens to me but I can be having a deep conversation with someone and all of a sudden, they are not listening to me. I feel they think I am out of my mind or I have a great big imagination and they do not want to listen to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am more intuitive and I do have ESP I realize more now than I had ever felt but I do not know if it was from my NDE or just from being a little more knowledgeable because of my age and not being afraid of it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes it was when I realized who I was being out of my body and looking down and seeing that it was me but it was almost instantaneous when I realized it and that to me is the wonder of this whole experience that I had with my NDE. I did not freak out realizing what was going on when I was looking down watching everything that was going on with me not being in my body but knowing instantly what was happening and the strangest thing was I was thinking to myself and seeing myself!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The time between my experience and when I started sharing it with other people was about ten to twelve years. They did not know what to think but some people have heard of such experiences and some have not. A few were influenced by my story.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I viewed this experience as if it was a dream. I was not really sure of anything after my NDE because the hospital never told me that it happened so I really had no other choice but to think it was a dream of some kind. It always was on my mind what I saw when I was on the operating table having a dilation and curettage procedure after my miscarriage. Until I saw a talk show with people having somewhat of the same kind of experience I had and until then which was about ten to twelve years later I had a strange feeling that this is what I really experienced years before and now I know what this was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know just like with my ESP or my intuition I just know.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   After my experience of NDE I had two cesarean sections with my two sons and I was conscious with the anesthesia that I was under with both surgeries. I could feel them cutting my stomach.  It did not hurt.  But when they were taking the babies out of me, it was the most unbelievable pain. I heard the anesthesiologists telling the doctors to hurry and that they were losing me.  At the time I thought I was hearing God telling me to hold on to my life and I heard the doctors saying that I had a boy so I knew before they told what I had and the next thing I knew I was being woke up by the nurses. With both experiences, I never told my doctors what had happened. I really do not know if that had anything to do with my NDE but maybe it did.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ellen_n_nde.html