{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ellen_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Ellen K NDE 2213\/6178","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ellen K NDE 2213/6178  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ellen K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						615  Ellen K NDE  2213/6178  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		Experience Description 2213:   

At first I was experiencing the most excruciating pain I had ever felt in my life. It was like being stabbed with a white-hot sword over and over again!

After roughly twenty minutes of this pain, I began to feel serene and the pain was fading. Apparently, I was slipping in and out of consciousness. I vaguely remember people calling my name and touching me for a response but I was too busy concentrating on this ‘golden vortex’, which seemed to be reeling me in!  The pain was gone and I remember a strong sensation of warmth, comfort and pure love.

I was vaguely aware too when the ambulance crew arrived and were calling my name and trying to get a response out of me, but I could not respond as I was unconscious!  I also remember getting into the emergency room in the hospital and the staff there calling my name but getting no response. It was at this time that I knew I was probably going to die.  I could see the urgency in the faces of the doctors and my partner, but I didn't care, the pain had gone.

I eventually left the people here on earth and went into the brightest white light. There was nothing but light and love, warmth, comfort, and a feeling of forgiveness and understanding.  I couldn't see anything or anyone, just the light.  However, I felt I was communicating with my ‘father’, which was strange as my father is still alive.  He didn't feel like my biological father but rather the ‘ultimate Father of all.’ I hope you can understand that!

I experienced a time of rest, love and healing and then (I can’t say when as time was meaningless) I had like a life review.  This was quite funny even though it was emotionally upsetting. I was asked what I thought about it and we agreed.  It was much like the comments on all my school report cards, ‘could have done better.’

I was then asked if I would like to go back to my life and try to improve or stay in the light.  I guess I must have been undecided as I was then shown a vision of all my family around my hospital bed crying and looking really worried.  This tugged on my heartstrings and I decided I wanted to go back.  I couldn't bear to upset my family by leaving them behind!  The next thing I remembered was feeling sick and in pain.  I opened my eyes and saw my family around my hospital bed. They all looked worried and upset!  I had been unconscious for two days and it was touch and go as to whether I would survive or not.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     'ectopic pregnancy, burst fallopian tube and toxic shock.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   My fallopian tube had burst and by the time I was rushed to the hospital for emergency surgery I had fallen into deep unconsciousness and had to be resuscitated  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt more consciousness and alertness than normal. I knew and could see everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No time or space exists, just the white light.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could feel the colors and knew they were more than just colors, maybe part of a being  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sounds seemed faint but clear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Like a warm golden tunnel or vortex.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt like I was in the presence of ‘the boss of everything’ but very paternal, he was the light.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   After the tunnel everything was the brightest white ever, there was only white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i think so beautiful gardens and places to rest.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love, security, forgiveness, sadness and joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw all my flaws and where I had been going wrong in my life, as well as my good points.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     That I would become a mother  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Uncertain…I’m probably slightly more spiritual, but also skeptical at the same time.  I feel like I can see right through fake mediums (which is most of them in my opinion!!!)  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritualist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Uncertain…I’m probably slightly more spiritual, but also skeptical at the same time.  I feel like I can see right through fake mediums (which is most of them in my opinion!!!)  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have forgotten most of it but the truth is love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more interested in justice and standing up for myself!  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     People say they feel healed in my presence!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real. It was exciting and I felt relieved, happy, and no longer feared death or pain. I knew when it was all over that everything would be all right for everyone.  Hell is a myth!  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real. It happened to me and that's all that I can say  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       


      Experience Description 6178     

I was sitting at home one afternoon, unaware that I was pregnant and had been feeling uncomfortable for some days. I had a severe pain in my right side, which steadily got worse until I felt I was being stabbed with a white-hot sword. At this point, I became delirious and started drifting in and out of consciousness. My partner was trying to wake me but I was delirious and then all of a sudden the pain stopped and I started drifting or being surrounded/pulled into an energy, which was like a tunnel.  I could see my home outside the tunnel and was semi- aware of things going on around me. This was mainly my partner panicking and trying to arrange to get me to the hospital. I liked the feeling of being in the tunnel because while in it I didn't experience any pain and I felt happy and comfortable. Outside the tunnel was pain. 

I don't remember the journey to the hospital but I remember being vaguely aware of medics asking me my name and telling me in no uncertain terms that I was to answer them, I couldn't as I was now in a place that was like being in the clouds' pure white.  I felt comfortable and blissfully unaware of anything until I heard a voice telling me it was ok and that I was in the presence of my father and Jesus.  I could not see anyone but I was fully aware of the interaction and that I was able to interact also. I felt a tremendous sense of paternal love, which I found odd afterwards because I was brought up in a single parent family having never had a father.

I watched a movie of my whole life. It took a fraction of a second but everything was there.  I had no questions because all the answers were within me. I felt like I was all-knowing.  I had no sense of pain, suffering, hunger, etc.

Then the voice who called himself Jesus (he told me who he was when I asked him his name) asked me how I thought I did in this life?' I paused and giggled and said 'much like my school report really' could have done better.' The voice said 'So, what do you want to do?'  Again I paused and even though I had no physical body it was like I shrugged my shoulders and said, 'I'm not sure really.'  At that point, I was shown another movie. I saw my family, partner, and my mother who were all looking sad and crying while I lay dead on the hospital bed.  I felt a wave of emotion and cried out, 'Oh no, my mum's crying. I can't have that and besides, I haven't had my kids yet!' At that very moment, I woke up in that very same hospital bed.  My family was all around me and looking very worried.

Background Information:    

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    june 1994  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessCPR given    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Yes, severe internal blood loss & shock.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself dead in the hospital bed with my family grieving around me.
  					  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more consciousness and alertness than normal. I knew everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In the white cloud state.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Everything seemed to be happening at once, or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid  

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I had no vision.  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I had normal hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    No  

The experience included:      Tunnel  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Yes, it was see- through and it felt really nice. The only way I could describe it was a golden warm feeling of love.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes       

The experience included:      Unearthly light  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I was aware that beyond the clouds was my father and he was an immense source of loving energy and golden light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, a clearly mystical or unearthly realm.  It was like I had returned home.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Pure, unconditional love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

The experience included:      Special knowledge or purpose  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Yes, I understood everything about the universe, but I can't describe it now.  It seems I have amnesia about it.  

The experience included:      Life review  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

The experience included:      Awareness of the future  

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from my personal future     Scenes from my personal future; my family gathered around my hospital bed.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?      Not important to me  

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Yes, I'm now following Jerry & Esther Hicks and their Teachings from Abraham.  I'm also learning about astrophysics and The Laws of Attraction and I'm also learning about Buddhism.  

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?      Greatly important to me  

What is your religion now?      Buddhist   I follow the Buddhist faith for guidance but i wouldn't call myself a buddhist.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?      Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience   i was very unsure about religion, i considered myself an atheist.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now believe in God.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered a definite being or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.  It was like telepathy rather than hearing.  The voice told me that he was Jesus and my father.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      Yes   Jesus and God (?)  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?      Yes     The answers to all my lifetimes questions. But it was like nothing really mattered.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?      Yes     awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness does exist.  

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?      God probably does not exist  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?      Yes     That there was an all encompassing divine source energy  

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?      God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:    

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes, I felt like there was more to come  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?      No       

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?      Unknown  

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?      An afterlife definitely exists   i felt like there was more to come.  

Did you fear death prior to your experience?      I greatly feared death  

Do you fear death after your experience?      I do not fear death  

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?      Greatly fearful in living my earthly life  

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?     Not fearful in living my earthly life  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?      Are possibly meaningful and significant  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?      Are possibly meaningful and significant  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?      No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?      No       

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?      Slightly compassionate toward others  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?      Yes     That i was loved and it was unconditional.  

Were you compassionate after your experience?      Greatly compassionate toward others  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?      Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Yes, I find it hard to be around non spiritual people  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes, it's hard to explain to others without them thinking you are crazy.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?    I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It goes along with the theory that we are all part of a greater source of energy.  Learning stuff is like going back to school in order to expand consciousness.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Yes, straight away with my partner and after that I told a few more people. However, their reactions put me off telling anybody else.  I started talking about it again a few years ago when people openly came to me and specifically asked me about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Yes, through books and magazines.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     The experience was definitely real because it was very profound in my mind. I was in awe and felt like I had been shown a glimpse of reality.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     The experience was definitely real but I'm not sure I'd like to know why this happened to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ellen_k_nde.html