{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ellen_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ellen C Probable NDE 4880","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ellen C Probable NDE 4880  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ellen C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2488 Ellen C Probable NDE 4880  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the same hospital for a second time with pneumonia. I recall being in old fashioned oxygen tent with heavy plastic tucked in around bed.  There was a zipper for staff to work with noisy machine and me. My parents were away on vacation and had been called back because 'she may not make it'. Grandmother had been caring for me. 

At time of the experience, I no longer had the sensation of not being able to breathe.  I felt no pain and had a sensation of floating.  Everything was very bright.  There was a feeling of softness on clouds. The clouds parted and revealed large, white gates opening at the end of the experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1946

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in old fashioned oxygen tent unable to breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When the white gates opened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the white gates opened.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright lights got brighter.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Felt nice.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Not sure at young age what my beliefs were.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Not sure at young age what my beliefs were.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Perhaps, in the process of dying, pain and discomfort disappear and a sense of peace takes over.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Probably about fifteen years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     A bit haunting as I was only a child. Didn't think anyone would believe me. It was my experience and I needed to keep it to myself. Likely parents and others were worried enough without talking about this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know more about death and dying. I was with my mother as she was dying.  I experienced some unusual phenomenon in her room as she took her last breath and for a few days after. There were bright lights, mist or fog, like an aura in the room (a caregiver remarked on this also and nothing to explain this).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Have had a few episodes of optic migraine with lights brightening and prism like visual flashes.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I talked with a co-worker who was an MD Psychiatrist at the University of Michigan Neuropsychiatric Institute who was doing some research on near death for a paper. Not sure what happened to all of that.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       An acknowledgement that these events do occur and to let people who have experienced them have some validation as to reality of it. For me the experience was nice and comforting and for others maybe a nightmare.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ellen_c_probable_nde.html