{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ellen_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ellen A Probable NDE 5302","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ellen A Probable NDE 5302  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ellen A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2787 Ellen A Probable NDE 5302  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was about three to four months pregnant when I started bleeding profusely in the middle of the night. I went to the emergency room at the small local hospital. I had a two and half year old son whom I did not want to wake up. My husband stayed behind with him while I drove to the hospital alone - about three to five miles away.

Upon arrival, I was processed into the emergency room and put in a cubicle - unattended. No one really took me seriously, as I had just driven alone to the hospital so they were not worried about me. I was not at all hysterical as I was working at the time at another hospital as a Medical Technician and I understood what was happening. I told them that I had lost several pints of blood and they just said, 'Okay, the doctor will see you when he is free.' It appeared that I was the only patient there so I assumed the doctor was actually napping as it was early morning (1:00 - 2:00 am). Back then, the emergency room doctors napped during the overnight shift if it was not busy.

Meanwhile on the gurney in the cubicle, while waiting to see the doctor (or anyone) I felt warm heat like that from a hair dryer (no noise) sweeping down my body repeatedly in just one direction only - from head to toe. It was like a massage but only from head to toe never from toe to head. I passed out (or snoozed off) a few times only to awake to the same experience. I felt like I was dying and was so relaxed that I did not care. The experience was soothing and pain free. This seemed to continue for about thirty minutes or more. I could not advocate for myself although often conscious. I just was at total peace and did not care.

All of a sudden, I looked over to the ceiling corner of my curtained cubicle; there appeared in 3D color my beloved Dad and brother Joe - both deceased. They were in the form of a HOLOGRAM - transparent but vivid and pretty much life size (maybe a bit smaller). They said nothing, showed no expression, and just looked down at me. Now I was really happy! In my mind, I would say they were there for minutes - but who knows. They dissolved into thin air.  What seemed right after, the doctor came into to examine me but just yelled, 'Emergency room stat!' I guess he must have observed my color or perhaps bleeding. He did not waste time taking my vitals in the cubicle; he took them on the run to the operating room where I had a dilatation and curettage procedure and several units of blood.

Had I imagined this, I would have included my favorite brother John in this experience - although deceased, he did not appear in my vision. My husband Ron was a great friend of my John. Ron said knowing John, he probably could not make the visit as he had a hot date with a heavenly body.

I truly believe in my NDE and have had a certain inner piece since them. I have had a lot of sadness in my life since this but I can always move on knowing that I am somehow part of a bigger plan. I have shared this experience with close friends after they lose a loved one. While they appreciate my intentions, I am not sure they believe.

Again, the reason I find this NDE to be valid was that my brother John was absent. Had I imagined it, he would have been there for me as we were so close; Alas he was not.

Thanks for your time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  miscarriage  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was bleeding to death as I was having a miscarriage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw the 'hologram'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the 'hologram'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know how long I was unattended but I would say thirty minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Transparent and muted although in color. The room was already bright as the lights were on the entire time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not recall any sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The room was bright yet the vision was brighter. It was not a light however.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Totally relaxed pain free, and peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have insight but not ESP.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I have always been religious.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I have always been religious.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have inner peace and felt that I should help people find theirs.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I do not tolerate petty people who want to waste time and resources.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Inner piece, tolerance, understanding of human nature. No desire for $$ or things. I try to experience things (travel, helping others).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my Dad and Brother Joe at total peace. They looked the age they were when they died, seventy-three years and twenty-nine years.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my husband a few days later. I still share this with others and they are always receptive but unable to grasp. I am a logical scientist so that they know that I would not lie. They seem to accept but not understand.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I tell this to people who need to cheer up or calm down. I don't use it as parlor game.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real but at the same time did not dwell on it as I was grieving the loss of a much wanted baby.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     If it was imagined, I would have seen my brother John along with Joe and Dad.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Great questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ellen_a_probable_nde.html