{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1elle_nde.html","mytitle":"Elle NDE 4121","mylang":"de"}
          	        Elle NDE 4121  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Elle NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2014 Elle NDE 4121  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My entire day leading up until the accident felt strange. I felt another presence surrounding me and almost as though everything had already been planned in advance like it was destined to happen. On my way to the intersection, I felt a strong negative energy and at that moment, I felt as though something terrible was going to happen. I waited patiently at the cross walk for the lights to change and signal my way to cross. Moments later, it was my turn to walk and there were NO vehicles or pedestrians in sight, so I began to cross. Suddenly within seconds, a car was driving at full speed and runs right into me. I could almost feel this negative energy suddenly release and disappear. As for me, I rolled over the entire car, fell onto the street, and felt paralyzed with blood everywhere. I couldn't breathe and I was in a tremendous amount of pain - I tried to lift myself up but I was unable to.

I was convinced that I was going to die.  I asked God, 'why?' I asked if this is my destiny at least let me die peacefully without additional pain. I began to cry thinking of my family who needed me and how many things I had yet to accomplish such as school, having a family, saying goodbye to loved ones and suddenly my life fast forwarded in front of my eyes and I slowly drifted off. I was now able to see myself laying on the street covered in blood with my belongings scattered around me. I kneeled down beside my body and began to cry, it was far more real this time and I saw two women who had parked there car and ran towards the scene to aid me - but it was too late I was already dead.

I looked around and it seemed like another dimension. People who had not been there previously were walking around and doing normal day to day activities. Some had been hurt and some looked normal and suddenly I began to think of how much I still had to do and how I never got the chance to say I love you to my parents and how much I would miss them and felt terrible to know they would find out I died. SUDDENLY a car was driving in the direction of my body lying on the street and my grandfather APPEARED, whom I have never met and only know in photographs, he stood over my body and used his hand to stop the car which was coming in my direction. As he stood there placing his arms out towards the car, it stopped and before I could thank him, I was ALIVE again.

I was back in my body for a few moments. Once I had returned to my body the third dimension didn't exist neither did the people I saw and my late grandfather was gone. Paramedics had surrounded me and I remember having the worst headache, which felt like your head being continuously banged into concrete over and over. I drifted off again and went into a different state this time it was a white, pastel light similar to a tunnel. In exactly six and a half hours I woke up in the hospital shivering uncontrollably - alone - and alive with a second chance of life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 28 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury  I was a pedestrian at the time of this accident when a motor vehicle ran into me.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Some things seemed transparent and much clearer than in day to day life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I remember a light of white and pastel and a form of a tunnel but everything seems blurry after that.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My late grandfather whom I never met but only know from photographs.  Other spirits/people in another dimension walking around dressed in different attire continuing with their day to day life.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright light of white and pastel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A dimension where people were carrying on.....some looked hurt and some looked ok

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Devastated, Frightened, Shocked, and Curious.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything seemed to pass by my eyes, mostly joyful experiences during my twenty-one years and some sad ones. Especially leading up to the accident.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I try to be more religious and learn more about religions in general.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to be more religious and learn more about religions in general.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The existence of another dimension.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am less open and I have suffered from a lot of stress depression and uncontrollable anxiety and fear.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     At times I am able to sense my surrounding for presence and also have seen a spirit a couple of times.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Life passing by my eyes. Having my late grandfather protect me. Entering another dimension.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some are amazed. Some think I've gone through a lot so it's a hallucination period.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was extremely convinced without a doubt in my mind of all these events which happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Everything was real - at no moment in time did I question this, I am convinced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elle_nde.html