{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ella_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Ella J NDE 16042","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ella J NDE 16042  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ella J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			2740 Ella J NDE 16042  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

1891 Mormon NDE shared by Susan K.

Experience:

Lorenzo Snow (1814-1901) was the fifth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, from 1898 to 1901. A well-educated and refined man, he served many missions for the Church, traveling to England, Italy, and the Pacific, as well as in the southern and northwestern United States. Coming to the presidency when the Church suffered under a crushing weight of debt, President Snow reinvigorated tithe-paying among the Saints and put the Church on the road to financial solvency.

About the time of his conversion as a young man, Elder Snow had been promised an ancient apostolic power by Joseph Smith, Senior. ‘If expedient the dead shall rise and come forth at thy bidding’. In 1891, he restored life to a young woman, Ella Jensen, after she had been dead for two hours.

The miracle of healing is not unique in the Restored Church, but bringing a person back to life is certainly uncommon. One such case occurred in 1891 at Brigham City, Utah, and involved Lorenzo Snow’s niece, Ella Jensen. Lorenzo was speaking in the Brigham City Tabernacle when he was informed of the death of his niece two hours earlier. He quickly left the meeting with the stake president, Rudger Clawson and went to the Jensen home where he found the nineteen-year-old Ella washed and laid out for viewing. Brother Snow was inspired to bless young Ella that she might return to life, which he did with Brother Clawson’s aid. An hour after the two brethren left the home, Ella opened her eyes and asked for her uncle who she said had called her back. She lived for another sixty-five years.

From ‘Raised from the Dead’  (Condensed from September-October, 1929, issues of The Improvement Era, 32:883; also Y.W. Journal 4:164. Compare with Life of Lorenzo Snow, page four hundred six.)

This story, true in every particular, shows the fulfillment of a prophecy made upon the head of Lorenzo Snow when he received a patriarchal blessing under the hands of the Prophet's father, Joseph Smith, Senior. It was given in the Kirtland Temple, and among other things were these promises:

 ‘Thou shalt become a mighty man. Thy faith shall increase and grow stronger until it shall become like Peter's. Thou shalt restore the sick; the diseased shall send to thee their aprons and handkerchiefs, and by thy touch their owners shall be made whole. The dead shall arise and come forth at thy bidding.’

It was March 3, 1891, and for several long weeks Ella Jensen, a young girl of nineteen at Brigham City, Utah, had lingered, almost between life and death, with Scarlet Fever. Leah Rees, her girlfriend, was serving her as night nurse, and it was about three or four o'clock in the morning, when, as Leah reports it, ‘I was suddenly awakened by Ella calling me to get the comb, brush and scissors. She explained that she wanted to brush her hair and trim her finger nails, and get all ready, For,' said she, `they are coming to get me at ten o'clock this morning.'

 ‘I asked who was coming to get her.’

‘Uncle Hans Jensen and the messengers,’ she replied. ‘I am going to die and they are coming at ten o'clock to get me and take me away.’

‘I tried to quiet her, saying that she would feel better in the morning if she would try to sleep.’

‘No,' she said, `I am not going to sleep any more, but I am going to spend all the time getting ready.'‘   ‘She insisted that I get the comb, hairbrush and scissors, which I did, but she was so weak that she could not use them. As I was brushing her hair, she asked me to call her parents. I explained that they were tired and asleep and that it would be better not to disturb them.’

‘Yes,' insisted Ella, `you must call them. I want to tell them now.‘

‘The parents were called, and as they entered the room, the daughter told them that her Uncle Hans, who was dead, had suddenly appeared in the room, while she was awake with her eyes open, and had told her that messengers would be there at ten o'clock to conduct her into the spirit world. The father and mother feared that the girl was delirious and tried to get her to be quiet and go to sleep. She knew their thoughts and said, `I know what I am talking about. No, I am not going to sleep anymore. I know I am going to die, and that they are coming to get me.'‘

Ella, realizing the end was very near, summoned each one of her family to kiss and bid them goodbye. She called each one by name as they came to the bedside. But her brother Budd was out and had not returned. As it drew toward ten o'clock, she felt she could not go until she had seen him. She was gasping for breath and exerting all her strength to hold on until Budd got back. Grandma Jensen arrived, and just as Ella had embraced and kissed her, Budd came in with Mrs. Nelson. Ella threw her arms around her brother's neck, kissed him, and then fell back on her pillow--dead. It was just ten o'clock.

Ella's father left at once to report to President Snow and consult him regarding arrangements for the funeral. Sister Nelson washed and laid Ella out, dressed her in clean linen, and Budd took the doctor back home, who had been called in this emergency. Meanwhile, news of her death spread about.  It was towards noon when Jacob Jensen, Ella's father, reported to President Snow at the tabernacle service, because it was more than a mile to town and he had to hitch up the horse to drive there. They returned together with Rudger Clawson, who was then the President of the Box Elder Stake.

After standing at Ella's bedside for a minute or two, President Snow asked if there were any consecrated oil in the house. All were greatly surprised, but the oil was secured for him. He handed the bottle of oil to Brother Clawson and asked him to anoint Ella, after which Brother Snow confirmed the anointing.

Particularly impressive among others, were these words that he used, ‘Dear Ella, I command you, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to come back and live. Your mission is not ended.’ His voice was very commanding, ‘Come back, Ella, come back! Your work upon the earth is not yet completed. Come back! You shall yet live to perform a great mission.’

 Ella remained in her dead condition for more than an hour after President Snow administered to her, or more than three hours in all after she had died. Her mother and father were sitting there watching by the bedside, when all at once she opened her eyes, looked about the room, and saw them sitting there. But she still looked for someone else, and the first thing she said was, ‘Where is he? Where is he?’

‘Where is who?’

‘Why, Brother Snow,’ she replied. ‘He called me back.’

They explained to her that Brother Snow and Brother Clawson were very busy and could not remain, and that they had gone.  Ella then dropped her head back on her pillow, saying, ‘Why did he call me back? I was so happy and did not want to come back.’

Then Ella Jensen began to relate her marvelous experiences; marvelous both as to the incidents themselves, and as to the great number of them that occurred in the short space of time between three and four hours. And furthermore, the very nature of these incidents proved that she was telling nothing but the truth.

‘At ten o'clock my spirit left my body,’ related Ella. ‘It took me some time to make up my mind to go, as I could hear and see the folks crying and mourning over me. It was very hard to me to leave them, but as soon as I had a glimpse of the other world, I was anxious to go, and all the care and worry left me.

‘I entered a large hall. It was so long that I could not see the end of it. It was filled with people. As I was conducted through the throng, the first person I recognized was my Grandpa H. P. Jensen, who was sitting in one end of the room writing. He looked up and seemed surprised to see me. He said, ‘Why! There is my granddaughter, Ella!’  ‘He was very much pleased, greeted me and, as he continued with his writing, I passed on through the room and met a great many of my relatives and friends. It was like going along the crowded street of a large city where you meet many people, only a very few of whom you recognize.  ‘The next one I knew was Uncle Hans Jensen with his wife, Mary Ellen. They had two small children with them. On inquiring who they were, he told me one was his own and the other was Uncle Will's little girl.

‘Some seemed to be in family groups. As there were only a few whom I could recognize and who knew me, I kept moving on. Some inquired about their friends and relatives on the earth. Among the number was my cousin. He asked me how the folks were getting along and said it grieved him to hear that some of the boys were using tobacco, liquor, and many things that were injurious to them.   ‘This proved to me that the people in the other world know to a great extent what happens here on the earth.

‘The people were all dressed in white or cream, excepting Uncle Hans Jensen, who (for this occasion) had on his dark clothes and long rubber boots--the things he wore when he was drowned in the Snake River in Idaho.  ‘Everybody appeared to be perfectly happy. I was having a very pleasant visit with each one that I knew. Finally, I reached the end of that long room. I opened a door and went into another room filled with children. They were all arranged in perfect order, the largest ones in the back rows all around the room. They seemed to be convened in a sort of Primary or Sunday school, which was presided over by Aunt Eliza R. Snow. There were hundreds of small children there.’

‘It was,’ continued Ella, ‘while I was standing listening to the children singing, `Gladly Meeting, Kindly Greeting,' that I heard President Lorenzo Snow call me. He said, `Sister Ella, you must come back, as your mission is not yet finished here on earth.' So I just spoke to Aunt Eliza R. Snow and told her that I must go back.

‘Returning through the large room, I told the people I was going back to the earth, but they seemed to want me to stay with them. I obeyed the call, although it was very much against my desire, as such perfect peace and happiness prevailed there--no suffering and no sorrow. I was so taken up with all I saw and heard that I did hate very much to leave that beautiful place.

‘This has always been a source of comfort to me. I learned by this experience that we should not grieve too much for our departed loved ones, and especially at the time, they leave us. I think we should be just as calm and quiet as possible, because, as I was leaving my mortal life, the only regret I had was that the folks were grieving so much for me. But I soon forgot all about this world in my delight with the other.

‘For more than three hours my spirit was gone from my body. As I returned, I could see my body lying on the bed and the folks gathered about in the room. I wanted to stay only a short time on earth to comfort them.’  Ella frequently told of the terrible suffering that she experienced when the spirit again entered the body. There was practically no pain on leaving the body in death, but the intense pain was almost unbearable in coming back to life. Not only this, but for months, and even years afterward, she experienced new aches and pains and physical disorders that she had never known before.

Some of the people Ella described as having met in this spirit sojourn were her aunts and second cousins, long since dead and laid away before she was born. She told her Aunt Harriet Wight, who had lost two daughters, not to mourn them, for she had seen them and had talked with them, and they were very happy in their new sphere of existence.  Many relatives and others visited Ella, she told them the same story--of how she had met their relatives and friends over there, how happy they were, and that they had asked about their loved ones here.

When Leah Rees, her night nurse, came to stay with Ella the next night, she told her about having seen her (Leah's) father and several others of her people who had passed away, as well as her own Grandpa Jensen--all of whom appeared very happy.  One person Ella was puzzled about seeing in the spirit world was little Alphie, the son of Alphonzo H. Snow. He had been in her Sunday School class in the First Ward, and she did not know that he had just died. When she told her mother, she said, ‘Yes, Ella, little Alphie is dead, too. He died early this morning while you were so very sick. We knew you loved him and that it would be a shock to you, so we did not tell you about his death.’ Nevertheless, she had recognized the little fellow happily singing among the children under the direction of Eliza R. Snow.

It was while sitting there listening to those children that she heard a voice coming to her in commanding tones, apparently from a long distance, which said, ‘Come back, Ella, come back! Your work on earth is not yet completed.’ And, although she had no desire to come back, but on the contrary, felt determined to remain in that beautiful world, the voice was so authoritative in manner that it seemed to draw, yes, actually draw her spirit out of that room and back to her body. She felt compelled to follow it and return to earth, where she filled to the fullness, her life's mission on earth, becoming a mother in Isr'l, and doing much for the glory of God and her own exaltation in the service of the Lord. She is now known as Mrs. Henry Wight of Brigham City, Utah.

I looked in new.familysearch.org, which is our Latter Day Saints website for family history.  She was born about August 13, 1871, probably in Brigham City, Utah.  (Named after Brigham Young.)  She died October 23, 1957 in Albion, Idaho.  She married March 20, 1895.  Ella and Henry were the parents of eight children.   				    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ella_j_nde.html